                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            March 17, 2010


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 12:00pm (Pacific) and began at
    12:01 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and vmWare.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Brian McCallister (joined at 12:23)
        Brett Porter
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent:

        Roy T. Fielding (excused)

    Officers Present:

        Philip M. Gollucci
        Sam Ruby
        Sander Striker
        Craig L Russell

    Officers Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        Jacopo Cappellato
        Chris Hostetter
        Brian Fox (12:07)

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Published minutes can be found at:

        http://www.apache.org/foundation/board/calendar.html

    A. The meeting of January 20, 2010:

       See: board_minutes_2010_01_20.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. The meeting of February 17, 2010

       See: board_minutes_2010_02_17.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       A relatively quiet month, but with a few important items to report.
       First, of course, is the coming members meeting, to be held via
       irc next week. We look to have a nice set of nominated members.
       Secondly, our Delaware Annual Report was due March 1st, but, last
       I checked, despite numerous reminders and Emails starting from
       December of last year, had not been prepared or submitted. A
       status update would be appreciated.
       
       I echo Justin's thanks to the committees for their efforts in
       submitting their budgets. The hope and expectation that this
       years budgeting process will be much smoother than last years
       (no doubt it will be; last years was our first successful and
       completed effort and so some "difficulties" was to be expected).
       
       The foundation appears to be on solid ground.
       

    B. President [Justin]

       Many thanks to all of the committees for submitting their budget
       requests and justifications for FY'10-11 in a timely manner!

       I have asked the Fundraising committee to submit revised donor and
       sponsorship projections for the new year.  At this time, I do not
       expect any serious fluctuations in the projections (that is, most
       of our platinum, gold, and silver sponsors should renew and we
       may be able to add some additional sponsors).

       The draft budget is available for review at:

          foundation:Finances/2010-budget.txt

       I would like to ask all of the directors to review the budget
       prior to the April meeting.  Ideally, any concerns over specific
       items should be raised prior the meeting to ensure a smooth
       April meeting.  I welcome any suggestions as to how we can have
       a smooth review process as possible.

       I gave a keynote at JASIG in San Diego on March 9th.  They are a
       higher-ed focused OSS group (celebrating their 10th anniv.
       this year) and have reached a point where they are trying to
       determine what's next and how JASIG can remain relevant over
       the next decade.  In addition to my keynote, I also talked
       at length with members from the JASIG board and tried to
       convey some of our experiences and lessons learned from Apache.
       They have encountered many of the same dilemmas we have faced
       over the years - in addition to some that we may face ourselves
       in the future.  I hope that our experiences are helpful and that
       they continue to find success along their path!

       I have a talk at OSBC in SF on March 17th and a panel session at
       EclipseCon in Santa Clara on March 24th.


       Justin notes that the 2010-budget.txt does not include any
       ApacheCon income, as that income can't be relied on, we treat
       any income that we do get as found money.


    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are currently up to date as of 2010-03-14 for checking,
      savings and credit card accounts.

      Contributions:

       - Current PayPal balance as of 03/17 is $19,205.51.
         Contributions for Feb 2010 was about $100 This is not
         reflected in statement of position below.  We're seeing a
         small increase in small amount reversals which is clearly a
         new fraud vector of some sort (all are payments from comcast
         addresses).  I've tried to bring this up with PayPal, but
         they don't seem interested.  For now I keep refunding any
         contribution that is claimed to be in error.  The net is zero
         for us.
       - Funds for Facebook Gold sponsorship received. 
       - Invoice sent to Google for 2010 Platinum
       - Note that we have the outstanding 50k from MSFT for the
         platinum.  I don't remember the payment arrangement, but just
         a note for Serge and Greg.  Let me know if there's some step
         that I missed.  I believe I've returned all necessary
         paperwork to MSFT.

      Tasks Done:
       - all approved bills paid
   
      In Progress:
       - Sorting out what really needs to be done for DE filing and
         report.  There apparently was some confusion around
         who was going to handle (I volunteered back in Dec, but thought
         the direction was that Scy or MarCom would handle), and
         right now, I believe that it's up to Sam and I to resolve.
       - We apparently didn't file a Schedule A for FY2009 US Federal
         Tax.  Working with CPA to resolve.
       - Need to get physical forms for 1099 for Sunstar.  Will solve
         this week (which is what I said last time...)
       - invoice to GOOG for GSoC - priority

      To Do:
       - need to start gathering CC receipts from CC holders. E.g ACON09

 
1) Statement of Financial Income and Expense - February 2010 - Accrual Basis

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                          107.79 
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                    293.72 
              Total Contributions Income                               293.72

           Total Income                                                401.51

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                     446.37
              Postage and Delivery                                      19.95
              Professional Fees
                Accounting                                      200.00  
              Total Professional Fees                                  200.00 

              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                    518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                   3,578.38
                   Infrastructure Staff                18,500.00  (1)
                Total Infrastructure                         22,596.38

                Public Relations
                   PRC Travel                             198.45
                Total Public Relations                          198.45

                Conference Expenses                              80.53 
              Total Program Expenses                                22,875.36

           Total Expense                                            23,541.68 

        Net Ordinary Income                                        -23,140.17

     Net Income                                                    -23,140.17

       Note 1 : Infra staff amount reflects a shift to paying
        16Degrees (aka Gavin) before the first of the month to allow
        wire issues to be sorted if they arise - therefore in this
        month accrue two payments

   2) Statement of Financial Position - As of February 28, 2010 - Accrual Basis

                                                    Feb 28, 10     Feb 28, 09     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Paypal                                   12,513.63      10,335.23      2,178.40         21.1%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account            200,779.19     156,914.69     43,864.50         28.0%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     285,169.98      98,688.88    186,481.10        189.0%
           Total Checking/Savings                    498,462.80     265,938.80    232,524.00         87.4%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                      90,000.00     110,000.00    -20,000.00        -18.2%
           Total Accounts Receivable                  90,000.00     110,000.00    -20,000.00        -18.2%

        Total Current Assets                         588,462.80     375,938.80    212,524.00         56.5%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    588,462.80     375,938.80    212,524.00         56.5%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Phil Golucci         1,191.96           0.00      1,191.96        100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna              0.00       4,523.30     -4,523.30       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                    39.90          39.90          0.00          0.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz             198.45       2,790.10     -2,591.65        -92.9%
             Total Credit Cards                        1,430.31       7,353.30     -5,922.99        -80.6%

           Total Current Liabilities                   1,430.31       7,353.30     -5,922.99        -80.6%

        Total Liabilities                              1,430.31       7,353.30     -5,922.99        -80.6%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         363,648.74     261,948.68    101,700.06         38.8%
           Net Income                                223,383.75     106,636.82    116,746.93        109.5%
        Total Equity                                 587,032.49     368,585.50    218,446.99         59.3%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      588,462.80     375,938.80    212,524.00         56.5%

       
       Geir to pursue IRS schedule A fix
       
       Geir indicated that he was prioritizing the US government over
       Delaware. Justin indicated that he would like to see both done
       this week.


    D. Secretary [Sam]

       Minutes continue to be produced, documents filed, and acknowledgements
       sent.  The software-grants.txt file was updated to include an email
       address to facilitate acknowledgements.  

       In the past, the primary responsibility (or more appropriately:
       privilege) for sending out both the initial invitation and the final
       welcoming to the ASF fell on the person who nominated the individual in
       question.  (I always double checked, but never found it necessary to
       intervene).  It would be trivial to adjust the secretary workflow to
       send out the final acknowledgements, complete with pointers to
       documents as new-member-resources.txt.  We should discuss whether or
       not this would be a good thing.

       As to the DE annual report story: I ran into a brick wall: our
       accountant and the state of Delaware don't seem to agree on whether or
       not our obligations to file a 2008 tax return have been filed.  That's
       still being sorted out.


       Board agreed that to have the secretary send out membership confirmation
       emails.


    E. Executive Vice President [Sander Striker]

       Another quiet month, thanks to Justin doing a good job keeping up.

       The discussion with respect to the EA has flared up again, which
       reminded me of the ball I dropped there.  I'll reconnect with Greg
       Stein and will collect our previous thoughts on the matter, after
       which I'll construct an RFP for review.

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    1. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

       Geir confirmed that the Public Review Reconsideration Ballot was for
       JSR 275.

    2. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

    3. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Jim]

       See Attachment 3

    4. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Brett]

       See Attachment 4

    5. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

       General discussion on licensing, and the relative roles of the WHATWG
       and the W3C.

    6. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    7. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Justin]

       See Attachment 7

       Shane to discuss the idea of a central public repository for all
       security fixes in order to improve security communications with
       the general public.

    8. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley / Brian]

       See Attachment 8

       No report recieved.  Brian to follow up

    9. Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Justin]

       See Attachment 9

       Geir asked about Technologent invoice, Phil to follow up.

       SVN performance improvements are much appreciated!

    10. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Geir]

       See Attachment 10

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Bojan Smojver / Roy]

       See Attachment A

       Greg to contact APR about including heath of user and dev community
       information, etc. in the board reports.

    B. Apache Archiva Project [Maria Odea Ching / Doug]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Axis Project [Glen Daniels / Shane]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache Camel Project [Hadrian Zbarcea / Greg]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache Cassandra Project [Jonathan Ellis / Jim]

       See Attachment E

       Jim to put Cassandra in touch with Publicity

    F. Apache Cayenne Project [Andrus Adamchik / Brian]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Click Project [Malcolm Edgar / Roy]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Commons Project [Phil Steitz / Geir]

       See Attachment H

    I. Apache Excalibur Project [Carsten Ziegeler / Brett]

       See Attachment I

       Brett to contact Excalibur and discuss whether moving to the
       attic is appropriate.

    J. Apache Felix Project [Richard Hall / Greg]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Shane]

       See Attachment K

    L. Apache Harmony Project [Tim Ellison / Doug]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache HTTP Server Project [William A. Rowe Jr. / Justin]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache iBATIS Project [Clinton Begin / Doug]

       See Attachment N

       Doug to pursue a report for iBATIS

    O. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Roy]

       See Attachment O

       Sam to inquire about LCF issue (re: NTLM?)
       
       http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/www-legal-discuss/201002.mbox/%3C4B85C2B7.9080005Metacarta.com%3E
       
       Jim to connect Etch to Community Development

    P. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Jukka Zitting / Brian]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Labs Project [Bernd Fondermann / Brett]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Lucene Project [Grant Ingersoll / Greg]

       See Attachment R

       Board suggests: discuss, allow people enough time to
       participate, then vote. And there is a general offer to all
       projects to request a Director to participate as an impartial
       advisor in controversial discussions.

    S. Apache OFBiz Project [Jacopo Cappellato / Jim]

       See Attachment S

       Jacopo to provide an update next month

    T. Apache OpenWebBeans Project [Gurkan Erdogdu / Justin]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache Pivot Project [Greg Brown / Shane]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache Portals Project [David Sean Taylor / Geir]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache Quetzalcoatl Project [Gregory Trubetskoy / Justin]

       See Attachment W

       Greg to present options: new chair, attic or httpd

    X. Apache Santuario Project [Raul Benito / Doug]

       See Attachment X

       Jim's action item remains open: at this point the project
       needs either an adequate report or to go to the attic.

    Y. Apache ServiceMix Project [Guillaume Nodet / Jim]

       See Attachment Y

       Note that the report was submitted late.

    Z. Apache Shindig Project [Paul Lindner / Brian]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Sling Project [Felix Meschberger / Shane]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daryl C. W. O'Shea / Geir]

       See Attachment AB

       Shane to inquire as to rules being published (released?)
       without adequate oversight (e.g. a vote).

    AC. Apache Subversion Project [Greg Stein / Greg]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Synapse Project [Paul Fremantle / Brett]

       See Attachment AD

    AE. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Roy]

       See Attachment AE

    AF. Apache Tomcat Project [Mladen Turk / Jim]

       See Attachment AF

    AG. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Justin]

       See Attachment AG

       Report to be provided next month, and every three months after
       that.

    AH. Apache Wicket Project [Martijn Dashorst / Roy]

       See Attachment AH

    AI. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Greg]

       See Attachment AI

       Greg to pursue a report for XMLBeans

    Committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Establish the Apache UIMA Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to the analysis of unstructured
       data, guided by the UIMA Oasis Standard, for distribution at
       no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache UIMA Project",
       be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache UIMA Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
       related to the analysis of unstructured data, guided by
       the UIMA Oasis Standard, and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache UIMA" be
       and hereby is created, the person holding such office to
       serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair
       of the Apache UIMA Project, and to have primary responsibility
       for management of the projects within the scope of
       responsibility of the Apache UIMA Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache UIMA Project:

         * Adam Lally                <alally@apache.org>
         * Bhavani Iyer              <bhavani@apache.org>
         * Burn Lewis                <burn@apache.org>
         * Edward Epstein            <eae@apache.org>
         * Jaroslaw Cwiklik          <cwiklik@apache.org>
         * Joern Kottmann            <joern@apache.org>
         * Jukka Zitting             <jukka@apache.org>
         * Ken Coar                  <coar@apache.org>
         * Marshall Schor            <schor@apache.org>
         * Michael Baessler          <mbaessler@apache.org>
         * Sam Ruby                  <rubys@apache.org>
         * Thilo Goetz               <twgoetz@apache.org>
         * Tommaso Teofili           <tommaso@apache.org>
         * Tong Fin                  <tongfin@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Marshall Schor
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache UIMA, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification,
       or until a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache UIMA PMC be and hereby is
       tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache UIMA Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache UIMA Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Incubator UIMA podling; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibilities pertaining to the Apache
       Incubator UIMA podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
       Project are hereafter discharged.


       Special Order 7A, Establish the Apache UIMA Project, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


 8. Discussion Items
 
       A. Jim would like to re-introduce the idea of a paid EA.

    Tabled until a RFP is available to be discussed. Sander (and
    possibly Greg) to develop a report. Discussion should not wait until
    next meeting but rather occur on list as the budget is imminent.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Roy:    Follow-up with Buildr on their use of git.
              Status: not done yet

    * Roy:    Update /dev with rule that invitation only dev meetings are OK,
              provided that such meetings are discussed on the dev list, and
              that all committers are included.
              Status: not done yet

    * Brett:  Get with Carl Trieloff and suggest improvements to the
              Qpid report so that it can meet board expectations.
              Status: Keep. Only sent an initial message today, will
                      follow through until they next report.

    * Greg:   Get with Quetzalcoatl to see if it is expected to improve or if
              the project should be moved to the attic.
              Status: still no report.  Action item is not to present options
              of new chair, attic, or movement to HTTPD to the PMC.

    * Roy:    Suggest that Abdera recruit on the Atom lists.
              Status: not done yet

    * Serge:  Coordinate thank-you letters with Geir.
              Status: continuing

    * Greg:   Request a special report from Lucene & HADOOP on the status of
              each subproject with respect to diversity and splitting out
              as a TLP.
              Status: not done yet

    * Roy:    Respond to the Incubator re: Traffic Server and international
              marks.
              Status: Done, remaining trademark permission received from Yahoo!

    * Shane:  Follow up on OpenWebBeans committer removal.
              Status: Done.  private@ mailing list had good discussion and 
              voting on committer changes, including the "removal" of a 
              name put on the original podling list, but who never 
              really participated in the podling or project. Sounds fine.

    * Jim:    Follow up with Santuario to either get a proper report and name a
              new chair.
              Status: Done. Whether what we rec'd is "proper" can and should
                      be discussed.

    * Jim:    Follow up with David on whether TCL should become a candidate
              for the attic.
              Status: David pinged. Keep open.

    * Sam:    File an Annual Report w/state of Delaware
              Status: not done yet

    * Sam:    File JIRAs on officers access to mail archives
              Status: not done yet

    * Geir:   Invoice Google for GSOC
              Status : work started 

    * Greg:   Pursue a report for Apache HTTP Server
              Status : report present

    * Doug:   Contact Noel on various Incubator issues discussed in Feb
              Status: Done. Noel responded in this month's report.

    * Roy:    To convey to Lenya the board's expectations for the contents of
              the community section of board reports.
              Status: not done yet

    * Brett:  Join the Logging private list
              Status: Done. I got in touch with Curt and with the PMC to let
                      them know I was subscribed and that the points from the 
                      last report had board attention. Will keep monitoring and
                      offer help where needed through the next few months.

    * Jim:    To request that Pivot reports include changes to PMC or
              committers.
              Status: Keep. Will have them start when quarterly (and add
                      in any changes that had been made up to then)

    * Sam:    Investigate Xalan licensing dispute.
              Status: not done yet

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

    Jim was asked to join the BoD of the CodePlex Foundation and accepted
    the offer.

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 01:14 p.m. (Pacific)

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

Spoiler : no progress on the Java SE TCK issue.

General : Quiet with standard traffic of TCK-related support for projects.

EC : Apache was the first 'no' vote on the Public Review Reconsideration
Ballot (the JSR failed the first Public Review Ballot) and was eventually
joined by Google, Doug Lea, Oracle, Intel, Tim Peierls and Ericsson.
This is notable (for us) because it was explicitly for technical reasons (they 
had no FOU or other license issues), and also it resulted in the termination
of the JSR.  We voted no because the spec lead intended the JSR to go 
into Java SE, and I felt that various factors such as technical quality
and completeness made this something that shouldn't happen.

We also had the first EC call with Oracle, the new Corporate Master of 
the JCP, where Oracle provided us with an outline of their plans and
intentions going forward with the JCP, and a few words on the running 
dispute with Sun/Oracle on the TCK license for Apache Harmony.  In short,
now that the acquisition is finalized, they are reviewing all pertinent 
material related to the TCK, and will get back to us around the end of
the month or shortly after.

While this wasn't unexpected, I and other EC members did voice our 
frustration over the fact that Oracle has had a very clear and supportive
position with respect to the Apache/Sun Java SE TCK dispute for a 
number of years now, and we couldn't understand what they could possibly
be thinking about.

That said, I don't recommend any action until we hear from them around the
end of the month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

No board-level issues noted.  Submitted a small budget to cover 
registration of select ASF trademarks.

Operations And Community
========================

Sally/Serge/Shane f2f meeting now scheduled for next week, which should 
allow us to publish more ideas and guidelines in our areas.

Seeking more input on trademarks@ on branding and marks principles.

External Requests
=================
Answered various non-infringing related questions.

Many thanks to Larry and Legal PMC for beginning work with Eclipse 
on an understanding about the Eclipse Scout and Apache Scout projects.
This points out that part of our key branding guidelines includes 
the use of Apache in our project and product names.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

Fundraising made progress this past month and will update the board
with respect to sponsors, donors, projections, and coordination.  No
issues for the board at this point.

SPONSORS
No additions or removals of sponsors this past month.

I feel that Greg and I are doing a reasonably good job handling 
incoming sponsorship leads and are doing ok responding to existing 
sponsors.  I need to make more of an effort to reach out and talk with
all of our existing sponsors to make sure they're happy.

The next step for sponsorship is to audit what we have.  We offer 25%
value in kind donation, and I need to confirm when each sponsor 
actually paid, compare that amount to the amount expected, and try to
track down the value in kind portion when appropriate.

DONATIONS
Progress on thank yous, but not complete.  The letter has been 
written, it was sent to one donor who was specifically asking for it,
I've reviewed the PayPal history and have those thank yous ready to go
out. I'm also discussing with Geir how to extra the donations via
wires and anything else coming in as donations that need thank yous.

While I was originally planning to, I ended up not involving
fundraising@ in the thank you letter process.  I saw the two benefits
of involving them was spreading the workload and creating personalized
thank yous.  For the first point, I didn't want to share paypal data,
so that left only trivial tasks that would take longer and more effort
to delegate.  For the second point, we were so behind for 2009
donations that I decided I just wanted to get valid tax record letters
out and will focus on personal thank yous going forward.

COORDINATION
I'd like to use fundraising@ more.  While fundraising@ is not a
committee, I do want to share more of my work on this list to provide
transparency and keep a record of what is being done.  I have sent a
few questions to the list without much response.  I think by
outlining specific tasks that I can get more involvement as I believe
people's interest (beyond monitoring what is going on) is in specific
areas.  I think everyone would like to see more emails on
fundraising@, but I haven't had a lot to say yet.

The Board/Justin asked for budget, and we basically have none now that
the work is largely done by volunteers.

Similarly I was asked for projections for the upcoming year.  I'm
reviewing this and will discuss on fundraising@ to see if people have
other opinions, but I'm expecting we do not see much change for this
year.

Finally, I'm flying to Boston on the 23rd for an all-day meeting with
Shane and Sally to work out ASF-wide marketing questions.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

- Budget: the proposed 2010-2011 budget was submitted to ASF President
Justin Erenkrantz for review by the Board in April. No additions or
changes were suggested by members of the Marketing/Publicity team,
however, Justin recommended we remove the "contingency" entry so that
all line items apply to specific expenses.

- M&P/Brand Management/Fundraising Meeting: Due to continued poor
weather conditions, the 9 February face-to-face worksession in Boston
with Shane Curcuru and Serge Knystautas is now rescheduled for 23 March.

Sally drafted an autoresponder for emails sent to prc@apache.org that
directs folks to the appropriate mailing list for Fundraising,
Trademarks/Branding, Marketing/Publicity, and Community Development.
This was forwarded to the Infrastructure team with a request to create
the autoresponder the week of 15 March.

- Press Releases: the following announcement was issued over PR Newswire
--

23 February - the 15th Anniversary of the Apache HTTP Web Server

The 15th anniversary of the HTTP Server received more than 1,700
mentions on Twitter within the first 8 hours of the announcement going
live.

- Media Relations: outreach continues, with the above press release
distributed under 24-hour embargo to our press/analyst-specific
distribution list. The embargo was honored with no violations.

- Future Announcements: Sally is currently discussing with the Tomcat
PMC announcement tactics to support the release of Apache Tomcat 7

- ApacheCon liaison: have begun discussions with the ApacheCon planners
for promoting the North America conference in Atlanta 1-5 November 2010.
Sally created placeholder copy for the ApacheCon Website, and will
continue to contribute to the site as needed. On the 10 March concall,
the primary focus was to align the conference with the ASF's
communications themes. This includes:

1. Apache: foundation of the Cloud
2. The Apache Way (ASF process) works!
3. Apache HTTP server - going from strength to strength
4. Ushering new innovations in the next decade (Incubator, Labs, new
releases, etc.)

The themes will be incorporated in both the technical and
business/community sessions.

Sally will be working with Luciano Resende to create the CFP and manage
the Business & Community Track. The CFP will be sent out the week of 15
March.

- Media/Industry Interviews/Outreach: we are coordinating press
interviews for Justin onsite at OSBC, as well as other key ASF members.

We coordinated an interview for Doug Cutting with a consultancy
regarding their new report on cloud computing.

Sally received a private query regarding the ASF's role in W3C and the
current activities on the HTML5 specification. She recommended liaison
with ASF's W3C AC Rep Sam Ruby, but the individual did not follow up.

We received a contract from OSCON to participate again this year in its
DotOrg Expo. Sally will review this opportunity with the M&P team, as
well as any PMCs wishing to participate. The event will take place 19-23
July in Oregon.

- Analyst Relations: we have engaged RedMonk on 9 March for strategic
advice and to leverage with outreach, networking, and media
opportunities. We will continue to work with analyst (Michael) Cote for
Media Training at ApacheCon; in addition to providing mini-briefings at
the end of the Introductory session, he also meets with PMC members of
several TLPs and Incubating projects. The cost of an annual subscription
is US$5,000.

- ASF Branding Research Project: Sally distributed the latest version of
the UInnsbruck/MIT questionnaire from PhD candidate Roland Schroll and
his advisor Johann FÃ¼ller to community@ on 16 February. They
incorporated several changes based on excellent feedback received from
nearly 80 respondants, and are seeking +/-200 further replies. We will
leverage the RedMonk network to help get the word out. The questionnaire
can be accessed at
http://surveys.hyvelive.de/10_apache/p1.php?refGroup=Apache

- PR Newswire account: we have used 5 of the 10 pre-paid flat-rate press
releases on PR Newswire. The remaining releases are available until 6
October 2010.

- Contract with HALO Worldwide has been renewed; the new engagement runs
until 1 October 2010.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

Voted YES on a poll to allow the HTML5 specification to be released by the W3C
under a more liberal license.  There are two parts to this: the basic belief
that execution and community, not licensing, should motivate contributions;
and the fact that there are two copies of substantially the same spec (the
other published by the WHATWG), and only affect that restricting licensing on
one of those copies would be to make that copy less useful.

Additionally, the Apache License, Version 2.0 is among the licenses being
considered, and I indicated that the ASF would be in support of such a plan.

The AC meeting is on the 29th and 30th.  I plan to attend and represent the
ASF.  The HTML5 license issue is likely to be a hot topic.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

Light month.  Two issues closed, two others discussed, and no issues opened.

Larry Rosen signed on behalf of the ASF a petition to the American Law
Institute to release their "Principles of Law of Software Contracts" for free
for review of the constituencies that care about it.

Discussion about documenting a more fine grained organization of the Legal
Affairs committee started and looks likely to peter out.

Initial planning work has begun to increase trademark coordination between the
ASF and Eclipse, impetus being the fact that there are unrelated projects
named Apache Scout and Eclipse Scout. Everything appears cordial.

Initial work has begun at the Mozilla foundation on a revision of the MPL.
One goal of the revision is to make it more obviously one-way compatible
(i.e., allowing Apache Licensed artifacts can be included in MPL licensed code
bases).  The ASF supports this goal.

Yahoo! donated its Trademark registration for the Traffic Server to the ASF.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

Apologies, last status report had metrics labelled Dec 2009 but
actually was for Jan 2010.

For Feb 2010: There continues to be a steady stream of reports
of various kinds arriving at security@apache.org.  These continue to
be dealt with by the security team.

4      Support question
1      Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
4      Vulnerability reports of which:
       1      Vulnerability report [axis, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [ofbiz, via security@apache.org]
       2      Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Philip Gollucci signed the annual service contract with Sun/Technologent
for ~$2K.

2 SSD's installed into eris(svn) to boost performance.  Between our EU and
US svn servers we currently handle over 6M hits / day.

RAM ($1200) installed into eris(svn) and brutus(jira,bugzilla) to boost
performance.

Website traffic to our tlp's and www.apache.org is hovering around 10M hits a day.

Spam traffic continues to fall: we are currently seeing only about 600K
connections per day, down from its peak of 1.5 M connections a day in 2006.

Philip Gollucci worked some magic and has upgraded all of our FreeBSD boxes
to 8.0-stable.  The old NGROUPS_MAX problem that previously limited users to
16 unix groups is a thing of the past.

Discussed and created a budget for FY 2010 worth ~$250K.

In discussions to purchase an Xserve from Apple for ~$6K.

Discussed an offer from a third party to host a virtual machine for us.
Ultimately the offer was declined.

Discussed plans for migrating Solaris zones to FreeBSD jails.

Aurora (websites) is down for an extended period of time until we can determine
whether or not to replace it immediately or have the machine serviced by a 
Sun tech.

Gavin McDonald specced another dell for use as a build farm server for ~$6K.

Purchased a pair of Dell 5448 48-port managed switches for ~$1600.

Brad Davis of FreeBSD infrastructure subscribed to infra-private@.

Aristedes Maniatis was granted infrastructure-interest karma.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

Apache Retreat Ireland
======================

Judges scored applications and two were approved. One later decided to 
pull out, so we have one TAC attendee for the retreat, a little 
disappointing but this is our first 'smaller' event. An invoice for 
flight reimbursement has been submitted.

ApacheCon NA 2010
=================

The next event we will be supporting is ApacheCon NA 2010. The process 
should begin within the next month. The idea being this time we have 
the application period open/close/accept before committers rates end 
so that any declined applicants could still apply for early bird 
registrations. (Last time it was the other way around).

General
=======

We were asked for, prepared, then submitted a budget for the next 
financial year. It is higher than last year's approved budget but we 
are expecting to support more events.

No changes to the committee membership.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

The activity on the project in the last 3 months (Dec 14 2009 to Mar 15 2010)
was as follows:

APR trunk:        99 commits
APR 1.5.x:        14 commits
APR util 1.5.x:    8 commits
APR 1.4.x:        24 commits
APR util 1.4.x:   10 commits
APR 1.3.x:        19 commits
APR util 1.3.x:    2 commits
APR 0.9.x:         1 commits
APR util 0.9.x:    1 commits
APR iconv trunk:   0 commits
APR iconv 0.9.x:   0 commits
site:              3 commits

Current stable releases of APR are 1.4.2 and 1.3.12, released Jan 26 2010 and
Feb 11 2010, respectively. Legacy release 0.9.18 remained current + 1
security patch.

Current stable release of APR util is 1.3.9, released Aug 6 2009. Legacy
release 0.9.17 remained current + 1 security patch.

Current stable APR iconv release is 1.2.1, released Nov 15 2007.

As of Mar 15 2010, there were 108 APR related bugs outstanding in Bugzilla.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Archiva Project

Releases
--------

* Archiva 1.3 was released on January 20, 2010.

Community
---------

* Joakim Erdfelt stood down from the PMC and requested to be moved to
emeritus status.

* vmbuild.apache.org was upgraded to Archiva 1.3.

Development
-----------

* The developers have planned a small set of issues for a 1.3.1 release,
while larger work occurs on trunk.

* A large change of the underlying infrastructure of Archiva was reviewed by
some of the developers and agreed to merge to trunk. This is in the process
of being polished and battle tested for release. The result is that the use
of a fairly inflexible database schema is replaced by a metadata content
repository, and a number of internal interdependencies are reduced.

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Axis Project

With the invaluable help of Gavin [insert much kowtowing and genuflecting
here] and the infra team, the Axis project is now plugging away... but with
a few loose ends still to tie. In particular we really need to get our new
website happening, and a few last tricky SVN bits from WS need to find a
home. We also need to get modernized and finish hooking up the whole
Hudson/Nexus framework for our builds. That said, we're rolling along fine
for now.

Activity on the new mailing lists is picking up on both the C and Java sides
now that people have gotten used to the switch from WS. Development activity
has also ramped up, with a number of people diving in to our long JIRA
backlog.

We added a bunch of stragglers from the WS project to our PMC, and settled
on a policy where committership == PMC membership, which we think should
create a greater feeling of ownership on the part of our committers going
forward.

No releases this month, nor any other particulars that require board
attention. I believe this is our final monthly report as a newly minted TLP,
and we now switch over to quarterly.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Camel Project

Community:
 * No issues that require the board attention.
 * The community continues to be very active.
 * Two new committers added: Ashwin Karpe and Stanley Lewis
 * There are a few other very active contributors on our radar

Development:
 * Development continues at the same intense pace on both trunk
   and maintenance 1.x
 * No plans to discontinue support for camel 1.x yet, but we
   may need to discuss that soon.
 * Most of the other projects using camel (we know of) already
   upgraded to camel 2.x

Releases:
 * Camel 2.2.0 released.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Cassandra Project

Cassandra is a distributed database similar to Google's Bigtable
or Amazon's Dynamo.

--Highlights--

We're is getting a lot of positive press about Twitter's adoption of
Cassandra (see e.g. [1]).  Cassandra will be represented at at least
one conference a month until Summer.  OSCON specifically requested a
Cassandra tutorial.

[1] http://nosql.mypopescu.com/post/407159447/cassandra-twitter-an-interview-with-ryan-king

--Releases--

0.5.1, a bug fix release.
0.6 beta2, containing new features like row cache and Hadoop support

We will start voting on 0.6 RC1 soon.

--Community--

Mailing list participation is up, from 379 on -users in January to 419
in February to 237 as of this writing (2010/03/09) in March.  IRC
participation is also up.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Cayenne Project

Development

* Cayenne 3.1 development is now taking place in the trunk with 3.0 in a
maintenance branch. Cayenne 3.0 API is frozen and only bug fixes will
be done and perhaps a few Cayenne Modeler tweaks which are external to
the API.

* Updated tutorials for Cayenne 3.0.

* Released Cayenne 3.0 Release Candidate 1 (January 6).

* Released Cayenne 3.0 Release Candidate 2 (February 5).

* Resolved Hudson issues that were plaguing the automated build/test.

Community

* Activity on the user mailing list has been normal, but activity on
the development mailing list has been elevated due to the addition of
new committers in the previous quarter and the releases of RC1 and
RC2 plus discussions of new items going into 3.1.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Click Project

Apache Click is an easy-to-use page and component oriented Java web framework.

Infrastructure

All TLP infrastructure tasks have been resolved
The website have been migrated to http://click.apache.org/

Development

v2.1.0 was released on the 10 February 2010

v2.2.0-RC1 is scheduled for release on the 31 March 2010

Community

Interest in Apache Click is growing. A new committer Finn Bock has
joined the project.
Mailing list traffic have been steady


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Commons Project

General
=======
Continued healthy activity across multiple components and
responsiveness on both dev and user lists.

Although Commons voted to sponsor the incubation of
agimatec-validation, the project decided in the end to have the
Incubator PMC sponsor the project instead.

Releases
========
 Commons Parent pom.xml 13
 Commons Build Plugin 1.2
 Commons Daemon 1.0.2
 Commons Lang 2.5
 Commons DBCP 1.3 & 1.4
 Commons JEXL 2.0

Community
=========
 New Commons PMC Members:
   Henri Biestro **
   Bill Barker *
   Mladen Turk
   Ralph Goers

 New Commons Committers:
   Gilles Sadowsky
   Dimitri Pourbaix

 ASF Committers given Commons Sandbox access:
   Simone Tripodi
   Adrian Crum
   Adam Heath

*  pending Board Ack
** pending candidate acceptance and Board Ack


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project

There are no known issues.

Excalibur is stable and used by some projects. Again, this quarter has
been very quiet with zero activity, neither in the mailing lists nor in
subversion (and no releases of course).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Felix Project

Community

    * After numerous contributions to the Web Console subproject,
      Valentin Valchev was offered committership and accepted.
    * NetBeans 6.9 milestone includes Felix framework for its OSGi
      integration support.
    * Dependency Manager undergoing various additions, such as
      annotation, aspect and adapter support.

Software

    * Recent contributions:
          o UPNP Plugin for the Web Console by Valentin Valchev.
    * Recent subproject releases:
          o Bundle Repository (1.4.3)
          o EventAdmin (1.2.2)
          o File Install (2.0.8)
          o Framework/Main (2.0.3, 2.0.4)
          o Framework Security (1.0.0) - With the release of this
            subproject, the Felix framework is now passing all core
            OSGi CT tests.
          o Karaf (1.4.0)
          o Maven SCR Plugin (1.4.2)
          o SCR (1.4.0)
          o Shell (1.4.2)
          o Web Console (2.0.6)

Licensing and other issues

    * OSGi CT made available to Felix community members who submitted NDAs.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

    * No news is good news.

Technical:

    * the installation is chugging along with active metadata
      maintenance.

    * we've updated the installed version of Maven to 2.2.1 which has
      tightened its verification process for plugins or so it seems.
      The current approach taken by Gump won't work anymore when we'd
      want to perform integration tests for Maven plugins themselves,
      but fortunately there currently is none followed by Gump that
      would be under active development.

Other:

    * still all Apache committers have access to metadata in svn.

    * no releases.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Harmony Project


Summary
=======

The Apache Harmony community remains healthy, and has recently
released new milestone builds.  The lack of a JCK continues to be an
issue for Harmony.


Development and Releases
========================

The Harmony community published Apache Harmony 5.0 Milestone 12 on
December 5th.  We later discovered that one source file had a
questionable header comment [1], so we replaced it with
Harmony 5.0 Milestone 12a on January 27th.

The next regular milestone, Apache Harmony 5.0 M13, was released on
March 10th, comprising a number of bug fixes and test case
enhancements.  On the same date we also released the first milestone
from our 6.0 code stream.  Apache Harmony 6.0M1 is the first stable
build available from the Java SE 6.0 API code stream, and while there
are still known missing APIs, this first milestone is already very
capable.

Harmony build and test is running smoothly on the Hudson systems.


Community
=========

There were no changes to the Harmony PMC or committers during the last
reporting period, and there are now 50 committers of which ~9 were
active this period.

The Harmony community have raised a number of proposed projects for
consideration by the Google Summer of Code participants.


Ref:
[1] http://markmail.org/thread/25csio5grqekr6cf


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

The most significant update at the Apache HTTP Server Project, of interest
to the entire foundation, is the careful reconsideration of all web content
and documentation around the word "Apache".  The discussion of the best
naming convention continues at the docs@ list.

Where appropriate, the documentation is being restructured to use either the
title "Apache HTTP Server" (not 'web server' etc), or short name "httpd", as
appropriate.  The hundreds-to-thousands of spurious references to "Apache"
are being reevaluated and in most cases, refactored away.  This process began
based on recent members and board discussion of the continuing name confusion
around the "Apache" name, and was heralded in the 2.2.15 release
announcement.  We hope to have a further update in May.

Since the November report, there were three tags against trunk (2.3-dev)
resulting in the first alpha 2.3.5 release from the project of this future
httpd. The project also approved legacy releases of 1.3 and 2.2.  There also
appears to be some interest based on recent commits of releasing a 2.0
security update.

The 1.3.42 release was declared final and decisive by the httpd PMC, and is
not expected to be refreshed again.  The announcement was carefully worded
to reflect this situation.  Some security updates with critical severity will
continue to be published as patches to the 1.3 tree for the foreseeable
future.

On the community front, the project added one docs committer, Igor GaliÄ.
Several PMC nominations were offered which attracted interest but no measure
of consensus.  10 years into this ASF project, it has become clear that the
PMC roster is far to large for a quorum, given absenteeism within this
committee.

The project will review the current private@ subscriptions, invite all absent
PMC members to rejoin (with multiple attempts) and after all have rejoined
who wish to remain PMC members, will submit to this board the list of
declines and non-responses.  For precedent, the project will follow the same
methodology as was employed at the Apache APR Project, and appreciates the
support of the board in this endeavor.  Past PMC members will be identified
as Emeritus and invited to rejoin active participation as their schedules and
interest permit.

The Apache [incubating] TrafficServer and HTTP Project meetup at Google this
past January was demonstrably successful, but much more so for TrafficServer,
who had packed well more than 80% of the room.  The half dozen httpd folks in
attendance enjoyed learning of the direction of ATS and commiserated with the
very similar problem sets that TS is currently attacking, and addressed
several HTTP Project issues during this face to face opportunity.  The Apache
HTTP Project extends its thanks to Google for making this space available,
and to Yahoo as well for its offer of space for this gathering.

Our thanks go out to Paul Querna and the rest of the infrastructure team who
have worked on the svnpubsub capability and our dist.apache.org server
facilities.  The project is currently updating our internal docs for this
transition, and hope that some of this documentation can be recycled to other
adopters such as APR, Incubator's TrafficServer and many more.  This service
should prove a tremendous asset to the Foundation's projects.

My personal apologies for the delay in delivering this for the February
meeting. The project will resume the normal reporting schedule with the May
report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

The past month has gone well, with no issues requiring Board attention.
Actually, in terms of Incubator business (not per-project activity), it has
been a relatively light month.

Changes to the PMC in the past month:

 Added:   Glen Daniels, Karl Pauls, Greg Reddin
 Removed: Jason van Zyl, Will Glass-Husain, Antoine Levy Lambert,
          Berin Lautenbach, Phil Steitz, Roland Weber, Santiago Gala

Log4PHP is graduated to the Logging TLP.  A new JSR-303 Bean Validation
(BeanValidation) project is starting, as is the Spatial Information Systems
(SIS) project.

There had been a question about Droid IP clearance issue, which turned out
to be a non-issue, with completely documented provenance.  Discussion is on
general@i.a.o.

The Board raised a concern about WSRP4J.  The project does appear to be
stuck at the moment, having lost all momentum due to the patent claim issues
that Apache Legal has subsequently covered to the satisfaction of the
project.

Of some concern is this month's ETCH report, where they express that they're
having trouble with community building, and are reaching out for help.  If
anyone has some cycles to spare, please feel free to jump in and help!

As for Wiki Markup, I always make an effort to find and remove it all.  If
any is remaining, it is an oversight.

-------------------------------------------

= Aries =

Aries will deliver a set of pluggable Java components enabling an enterprise
OSGi application programming model.

Aries entered incubation on September 22, 2009.

There are currently no issues requiring IPMC or Board attention.

The following sub-components are actively being developed:

* Application
* Blueprint
* JMX
* JPA

Several new sample applications have been developed to demonstrate the Aries
functionality.

A new component has been created to feed experience into the OSGi standards
process.

There has been a lot of activity on the mailing list this year indicating a
vibrant community is being built.

One new committer, Rex Wang, has been added. Redhat have started to
participate in the project.

We have begun the process of doing a 0.1.0 release and aim to release
shortly.

Top 2 or 3 things to resolve before graduation:

* Build community
* Create a release
* Address project scope concerns raised during acceptance vote


= Bluesky =

Did not report.  The students are just back from vacation, and there was
some discussion of moving them back to a quarterly schedule.  We'll ask for
an April report.


= Clerezza =

Clerezza (incubating since November 27th, 2009) is an OSGi-based modular
application and set of components (bundles) for building RESTFul Semantic
Web applications and services.

The are currently no issues requiring board attention.

Recent activity:

* IFP smushing (merge duplicate nodes based on inverse functional
properties)
* Replaced code with problematic license in triaxrs (url-encoding)
* Fixed problems with TDB based launcher (regression after update of Jena
TDB cause by incomatible versions)
* more complete HTTP support (OPTIONS *)
* Integration with UIMA for metadata generation using external services
like OpenCalais and AlchemyAPI
* Many bugfixes
* Discussing about Clerezza related project(s) for GSoC

Next steps:
* integration with Tika

Top 2/3 Issues before graduation:
* Get our website online, currently it's just a placeholder
* Prepare some easy-to-run demos to get people interested in Clerezza
* Prepare for a first release


= ESME =

Enterprise Social Messaging Experiment (ESME) is a secure and highly
scalable microsharing and micromessaging platform that allows people to
discover and meet one another and get controlled access to other sources of
information, all in a business process context.

ESME entered the incubator in 2008-12-02.

The following items have been performed since the last reporting period

* Ethan Jewett was accepted as an Apache committer.
* Completion of our first release (1.0 RC1) was our main focus. This
included getting the code-base release-ready, learning how to cut releases
and communicating on release goals / process within the community.
* Dealt with a legal issue involving a committer not wanting to remove
copyright information. Solved after long discussions on the apache-legal and
esme-dev mailing lists (thanks to all involved!)
* Started working on defining the JIRA items for the next release
* Collaboration with various Apache-external groups (Thingamy, SAP's
All-In-One)
* Users from various enterprises are using ESME in test installations

The following items are planned for the next reporting period:

* Work on new UI
* Further releases
* Integrate Stax deployment in daily Hudson builds

Top 2 or 3 things to resolve prior to graduation

* Increase community involvement in the project
* Multiple Apache releases


= Etch =

Etch was accepted into Incubator on 2 September 2008.

Etch is a cross-platform, language- and transport-independent framework for
building and consuming network services. The Etch toolset includes a network
service description language, a compiler, and binding libraries for a
variety of programming languages.

This last reporting period saw little activity (0 commits, 0 releases).
We're finding it hard to regain our momentum after the dissolution of our
team. James and Scott are using etch in their current projects, and Youngjin
would like to pick up the c-binding. What we lack is the organizational
energy to get things moving.

Some folks have submitted a c-binding for us to examine. Youngjin is going
to be looking at it. I've been shaking down the etch 1.1 release candidate
in my current project, and as soon as I can get my head out I plan to fix
the final administrative issues of the 1.1 release and try to kick it out
the door.

Release 1.1 is ready but needs some administrative polish before it is
*done*.

Release 1.2 is next in the pipeline.

Our continuous integration build problem will only be solved by one of us
hosting it at our new gigs. James and Scott are looking into this.
[!GavinMcDonald adds: I'm looking into adding Etch to CI stuff at ASF]

Outstanding items:

More community.. we have been Cisco-centered with just a few nibbles outside
of Cisco. Things are definitely changing with members employed or so to be
employed in different places. Building a stronger community remains our key
task. We wish we knew how.


= Hama =

Hama has been incubating since 19 May, 2008. It is a distributed scientific
computational package based on Hadoop Map/Reduce and BSP.

Recent Activity:

* We'd implemented, introduced the BSP (Bulk Synchronous Parallel) package
* Added a new committer, Hyunsik Choi

The following is planned for next reporting period:

* More documentations
* Re-factoring for improving the design of existing code

Before this project can graduate we need to encourage more participation in
the project and grow the community.


= Kato =

Kato was accepted into the Incubator on 6 November 2008.

Kato is a project to develop the Specification, Reference Implementation,
and TCK for JSR 326: the JVM Post-mortem Diagnostics API

Recent Activity:

   * The project's first release M1-incubating was finally released.

The following is planned for next reporting period:

   * The completion of the JSR-326 specification.
   * Finalization of RI and JSR.

Before this project can graduate we need to encourage more participation in
the project and grow the community.


= Log4php =

Log4PHP is a logging framework similar to Log4J, but in PHP. The project
entered incubation in 2004, retired and restarted again on 2007-07-04. After
the first release, community feedback has increased.

The Log4PHP Community and the Logging PMC voted in favour of leaving the
Incubator and moving to the sponsoring Logging project. This has just been
confirmed with a vote by the IPMC, so Log4PHP has graduated!

There are still some resource moves etc that need to happen, but expect that
future Log4PHP reports will now come as part of the Logging report. Congrats
Log4PHP devs.

 * Bugfixes on 2.0.0 has been done
 * Several new ideas of improvements have been collected in the issue
tracker
 * Apache Log4PHP 2.0.0 (Incubating) has been released on 12.12.2009


= Lucene Connector Framework =

Lucene Connector Framework is an incremental crawler framework and set of
connectors designed to pull documents from various kinds of repositories
into search engine indexes or other targets.  The current bevy of connectors
includes Documentum (EMC), FileNet (IBM), LiveLink (OpenText), Patriarch
(Memex), Meridio (Autonomy), SharePoint (Microsoft), RSS feeds, and web
content.  Lucene Connector Framework also provides components for individual
document security within a target search engine, so that repository security
access conventions can be enforced in the search results.

Lucene Connector Framework has been in incubation since January, 2010.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation
1. End-user documentation needs to be converted into a usable form
1. Strategy is needed for developing an Active Directory authority service,
for mapping Kerberos principals to AD SIDs
1. Testing strategy under Apache needs development

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?
1. We'd like to know whether there is any official Apache position on
inclusion of NTLM implementations in ASF projects, since we've gotten mixed
signals on this from other developers.  This represents a crucial piece of
functionality needed to support LiveLink, Meridio, SharePoint, RSS, and Web
connectors properly.

How has the community developed since the last report?
So far, most of the activity has been from the mentors and the committers,
but given the nascent state of the project this is not surprising, and we
expect interest to continue growing.

How has the project developed since the last report?

Lucene Connector Framework was voted into the Incubator in January 11, 2010.
The following has been done since then:

* Mailing lists set up
* Site created
* SVN area set up
* Code grant from MetaCarta accepted in early February, including Apache
2.0 headers on all pertinent files, and was committed to SVN at that time
* An ant build system for the Java code was created and tested
* Code was MetaCarta de-branded
* Code was formatted in accordance with Apache standards
* Issues related to upstream propagation of features into other Apache
projects were opened
* Documentation for building and hand setup was committed

At this point the project is buildable and usable.


= OODT =

OODT is a grid middleware framework for science data processing, information
integration, and retrieval. OODT is used on a number of successful projects
at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory/California Institute of Technology
(http://jpl.nasa.gov/), and many other research institutions and
universities.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation
1. Port OODT code and license headers into ASF license headers
2. OODT contributions from at least 2 other organizations besides JPL
3. At least one OODT incubating release, hopefully in the first few months

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?
No, not at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?
So far, most of the activity has been from the mentors and the committers,
but we expect interest to continue growing. Chris Mattmann has been
mentioning OODT over in the Lucene community.

How has the project developed since the last report?

OODT was voted into the Incubator by the IPMCon January 22, 2010.

All mailing lists have been set up, all SVN accounts are up, and karma has
been granted to all OODT committers. So far, three OODT committers have
stepped up  and begun to discuss issues on the mailing lists, and tackle
some  issues. Sean Kelly and Chris Mattmann worked with Joe Schaefer and
Justin Erenkrantz to get the OODT initial code  drop from NASA into Apache
SVN. As of http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-1 and
http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-2, the work is completed on the
initial code drop. Sean McCleese has been pouring through
http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-3, taking the action to update the
OODT source code with ASF 2.0 license headers. Chris Mattmann took care of
some of the initial work, checking  in a README, NOTICE, CHANGES and LICENSE
set of files into the OODT source.


= RAT =

No IPMC or Board issues requring attention.

RAT remains quiet but steady. A major PITA of the website not building
correctly was solved by Brian Fox. Some Jira issues were attended to and
patches committed. More and more projects are using RAT for their checks,
some adding as a Maven goal before doing a release, others via Buildbot or
other CI tools as part of their commit and check process.


= River =

River is aimed at the development and advancement of the Jini technology
core infrastructure. Jini technology is a service oriented architecture that
defines a programming model which both exploits and extends Java technology
to enable the construction of secure, distributed systems which are adaptive
to change. River has been incubating since December 2006.

Interest and participation has increased and we are hoping to pick up some
new committers as a result. A new release candidate has been submitted and
is available for review at:

http://people.apache.org/~peter_firmstone/

The source is also available from svn at:

https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/river/jtsk/branches/2.1.2

We are currently in a voting period for Apache River Incubator Release
2.1.2.

Recent activities have focused on easing development and streamlining the
build process
and a significant number of bugfixes.

Issues before graduation:

* Migrate packages to org.apache.river
* Increasing participation, further growth of the developer community.


= SIS =

Apache SIS is a toolkit that spatial information system builders or users
can use to build applications containing location context. This project will
look to store reference implementations of  spatial algorithms, utilities,
services, etc. as well as serve as a  sandbox to explore new ideas. Further,
the goal is to have Apache SIS  grow into a thriving Apache top-level
community, where a host of SIS/GIS related software (OGC datastores,
REST-ful interfaces, data standards, etc.) can grow from and thrive under
the Apache umbrella.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation
1. Inclusion of more of a diverse community around SIS (maybe one more
organization besides AT&T Interactive and NASA JPL)
2. At least one SIS incubating release, hopefully in six months
3. Inclusion of point-radius, bounding box and polygon functionality into
the first few releases

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?
No, not at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?
There was a lot of positive interest from the Incubator community during
the SIS proposal and voting process. We recently stood up our  mailing lists
and have begun to report JIRA issues, so we hope those are positive first
steps to building an  Apache-based community.  Chris Mattmann discussed SIS
over in the Lucene community as something to watch in terms of a common
place for spatial code for Solr and Lucene to reside.

How has the project developed since the last report?
SIS was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on February 21, 2010.

All mailing lists have been set up, all SVN accounts are up, and karma has
been granted to all SIS committers. Sean McCleese and Patrick O'Leary
volunteered to be list moderators, and Chris Mattmann has reported two JIRA
issues, http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SIS-1 (import Local Lucene
code), and http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SIS-2, stand up the SIS
website. We will also begin work soon on porting the license headers for
Local Lucene into SIS ASL 2.0 headers, and to port the package names for
code (JIRA issues to be filed on this).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

Apache Jackrabbit is a fully conforming implementation of the Content
Repository for Java Technology API (JCR, specified in JSR 170 and 283).

The Apache Jackrabbit project is in good shape. We have no board-level
issues at this time.

o Releases

  Jackrabbit 2.0 was released in January after all the main issues in
  previous beta releases had been fixed:

    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 beta5 on January 11th
    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 beta6 on January 18th
    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0.0 on January 27th

  We also made one maintenance release from the 1.6 branch:

    * Apache Jackrabbit 1.6.1 on January 21st

o Legal

  We have updated our NOTICE files as discussed in LEGAL-62 and LEGAL-59.

o Community / Development

  No new committers were added in this quarter.

  With Jackrabbit 2.0 out, we've started discussing about what we want to
  achieve in Jackrabbit 3, our next major release. These design discussions
  have been pretty lively and it's good to see many voices from outside the
  core development team participating in the email threads. The first bits
  of related prototype code have already hit our sandbox area in svn.

o Infrastructure

  No open issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Labs Project

Apache Labs hosts small and emerging projects from ASF committers.

[SUMMARY]

Activity in Labs was low but steady in last quarter.
Nothing requiring special board attention this time.

[DETAILS]

== Labs Statistics ==

- new: 1
- status changes (last 3 months): 0
- total number: 31
  - active: 25
  - idle: 1
  - promoted: 2
  - completed: 3
- labs with commits: magma, fluid, clouds, amber, pulse

== New Labs =

amber (PI: Simone Tripodi): "A Java development framework mainly aimed
to build OAuth-aware applications" This lab aims to be a from-scratch
re-implementation of a software the PI has been involved in before.

== Re-activated labs ==

None.

== Completed labs ==

None.

== Community ==

Nothing requiring board attention.

== Lab hacking ==

We had two commits for Lab fluid attributed to multiple non-committers
(r886691, r886729).

It wasn't clear which contributions came from the PI or other people
and the PI was unwilling to supply this information in detail and
split commits into appropriately attributed pieces and re-commit.  So
finally, the PMC reached consensus and removed this code from
svn. Unfortunately, this resulted in a frustrated PI.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project

=== Lucene Status Report: March, 2010 ===

TLP

The TLP is considering some restructuring of subprojects
per Board suggestions in December.  Solr and Lucene
are merging committers (there is already quite a
bit of overlap) and development efforts, but maintaining
separate user lists and artifacts.

Mahout and Tika have both begun discussions on becoming
TLPs and all signs are positive for such a move, but there is
no board resolution to consider yet.

The TLP has elected to sponsor incubation of the Lucene
Connectors Framework.  The project is now underway in
the incubator.  We expect this project will become
a TLP as well.

Added Mark Miller as a PMC Member.


LUCENE JAVA

Lucene Java is a search-engine toolkit.  Development has been
active and we have released 2.9.2 and 3.0.1.

Added Chris Male as a committer.

SOLR

Solr is a full text search server.  Development and the community
is active.  Community is working toward a 1.5 release.

NUTCH

Nutch is a web-search engine: crawler, indexer and search runtime. Bug fixes
and other improvements have been flying by, with many of the issues being
addressed by new Nutch committer Julien Nioche. Work has been performed to
integrate Tika parsing into Nutch (in addition to the existing work to
integrate Tika's mime detection functionality). Community is working towards
a 1.1 release.

Added Julien Nioche as a committer.

LUCY

Lucy is a loose C port of Lucene targeted at dynamic language bindings.  Basic
thread support for the object system was completed.  The community decided to
transition from C89 to a dialect defined by the intersection of C99 and C++.

LUCENE.NET

Lucene.NET is a .NET based port of Lucene Java. Development and the
community are active.

Community is working towards a 2.9.2 release.

Added Michael Garski as a committer

MAHOUT

Apache Mahout is working towards building a suite of scalable machine
learning libraries for text and data mining.  Development is active
and we are working towards a 0.3 release.  The Mahout community has
begun discussing becoming a TLP and will likely request such a move
after the 0.3 release is final.

Added Drew Farris as a committer.
Added Benson Margulies as a committer.

Open Relevance Project

The Open Relevance Project is a new project aimed at providing Lucene
and others tools for judging the quality of search and machine
learning approaches.
We added support for a third test collection: the TREC9 filtering
corpus, added documentation, and improved use with Lucene's
benchmarking package.

PyLucene

PyLucene is a Python integration of Lucene Java.  Development is
active.  PyLucene 3.0.1-1 and 2.9.2-1 were released this quarter.

TIKA

Apache Tika is a toolkit for detecting and extracting metadata and
structured text content from various documents using existing parser
libraries. Progress has been steady, with 2 remaining issues in JIRA ready
for a 0.7 release, which should happen likely within the next month or so.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache OFBiz Project

The Apache Open For Business Project (Apache OFBiz) is an open source
enterprise automation software project. By enterprise automation we mean:
ERP, CRM, E-Business / E-Commerce, MRP, SCM, CMMS/EAM, and so on.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time. However we
know that there are some concerns about the OFBiz release strategy and we
want to assure the Board that we are aware of the ASF policies about
releases, that we are taking in serious consideration the concerns and in
fact we are discussing a different release strategy that will work well
for OFBiz and will be in line with the ASF policies.

*Community and Project*

- Community interaction remains strong, user and dev mailing lists traffic
  is high, here are the number of subscribers to project mailing lists in
  early March:
    user@ofbiz.apache.org: 718
    dev@ofbiz.apache.org: 466
    commits@ofbiz.apache.org: 218
- number of commits (from 2009-12-10 to 2010-03-10) is 1132
- Significant new development continues, for highlights see:
  http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/OFBIZ/Main+New+Features
- Apache Commons has granted Adrian Crum (OFBiz PMC member) karma to move
  the OFBiz conversion framework to Apache Commons sandbox, with the goal
  being to have it replace their abandoned Convert project
- Jacopo Cappellato has been voted new PMC Chair after the resignation
  from this role of David Jones; David is still actively involved in the
  project both as PMC member and committer
- No new committers or PMC members

*Infrastructure/Legal*

- We have recently completed the migration of all our resources to official
  ASF servers, managed by ASF Infra. However, because of the migration, we
  are still having some issues, but we are working with Infra to fix them
  (see Jira tickets INFRA-2483, INFRA-2482 and its subtasks)
- We have also requested a legal advice for a minor license issue
  (see Jira ticket LEGAL-69)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache OpenWebBeans Project

OpenWebBeans is an ASL-licensed implementation of the JSR-299: Contexts and
Dependency Injection for the Java EE platform which is defined as JSR-299.

OpenWebBeans has graduated from the Incubator in 16, December 2009.

--Summary--

* Mostly working on bug-fixing.
* We have released M4.

--Current Development Status--

* Steadily coding on implementation to cover all specification.
* Working on bug-fixing and refactoring.
* Working on JSR-299 TCK-Standalone for being fully compatible.
* Working on documentation project to improve guides etc.

--Future Development Plans--

* Release a 1.0.0 version with full spec coverage.
* Starting to integrate with Geronimo Server.
* Working on JSR-299 TCK Integration tests.

--New Releases--

M4 has released.

-- Discussions--

* OpenWebBeans core must not depend on any
  Java EE APIs such as, servlet, jsf, jsp etc.
  therefore it can be used in lots of places.
* Remove log4j logging and use standard JDK logging.

--Community--

We have a new committer, Ying Wang.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Pivot Project

Apache Pivot is a platform for building rich Internet applications in Java.
Pivot graduated from the Incubator in December 2009.

We are continuing to work on Pivot 1.4.1, which we expect to release within
the next month or so. We have also begun some preliminary discussion about
Pivot 2.0, which will most likely be the next major release.

Note that will be be the last monthly report for Pivot. We will be switching
to a quarterly report moving forward and will report again in June.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Portals Project

-- New releases --

none

-- New committers --

none

-- Status --

1. Pluto JSR-286 Portlet API 2.0 Specification Release

No new core work since release of Portlet 2.0 Specification compliance
earlier this year.


2. Jetspeed-2

Nearing a new release of version 2.2.1.  Also working towards a bug
fix release for the 2.1.x branch, version 2.1.4
The new 2.2.1 release will contain several new features including:

- New Web 2.0 Client Side Customization Engine
- A Jetspeed Toolbar for one-click customization
- REST Customization APIs

Hope to start vote process for both 2.1.4 and 2.2.1 release in March 2010


3. Portals Applications

Continued maintenance and contributions to 1.0 applications released
in May 2009 from community and committers


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Quetzalcoatl Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache ServiceMix Project

The following releases have been performed:
* commons-pool 1.4_1 bundle
* commons-pool 1.5.4_1 bundle
* dozer 5.2.0 bundle
* jetty 6.1.22 bundle
* protobuf 2.2.0 bundle
* JBI maven plugin 4.2
* JBI maven plugin 4.3

In progress:
* 2010.01 servicemix components release is under vote
* ServiceMix 3.3.2, ServiceMix NMR 1.1 and ServiceMix 4.2
 releases will be started as soon as components are released
* DocBook based documentation is progressing

No change in the committers or pmc members list.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Shindig Project

Apache Shindig is an Opensocial Reference implementation in wide use by
both social networks and enterprise software.  Shindig graduated from the
Incubator in January 2010.

Community
=========
 * New committer Jacky Wang, giving us better PHP support
 * Increasing activity on dev list
 * The Shindig PMC has no issues that require board attention

Releases
========
 * no project releases
 * shindig web site now updated to reflect graduated status

Ongoing work
============
 * Work on a 1.1 release is ongoing.
 * Major refactor of the gadget rendering pipeline taking place.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Sling Project

Sling is an OSGI-based scriptable web framework that uses a Java Content
Repository, such as Apache Jackrabbit, to store and manage content.

Sling graduated as a TLP on June 17th, 2009.

There are no issues which require board attention at the moment.

Community

  * New committer: Eric Norman (17. Feb 2010)

Releases

  * Apache Sling Event 2.3.0, Apache Sling Scripting Core 2.1.0,
    Apache Commons MIME 2.1.4, and Apache Sling FileResource Provider 1.0.0
    (March 1, 2010)
  * Apache Sling Sample Path Based Resource Type Provider 2.0.4
    (February 22, 2010)
  * Apache Sling Event 2.2.0, Apache Sling Scripting API 2.1.0, and Apache
    Sling Thread Dumper 0.2.0 (Feburary 19, 2010)
  * Apache Sling JCR WebDav 2.0.8, Apache Sling JCR ContentLoader 2.0.6,
    Apache Sling JCR UserManager 2.0.4, Apache Sling JCR Server 2.0.6,
    Apache Sling JCR AccessManager 2.0.4, Apache Sling JCR Base 2.0.6
    (February 17, 2010)
  * Apache Sling Commons ClassLoader 1.1.4, and
    Apache Sling JCR ClassLoader 3.1.0 (February 8, 2010)
  * Apache Sling JCR API 2.0.6 (January 29, 2010)
  * Apache Sling Commons ClassLoader 1.1.2,
    Apache Sling Commons Scheduler 2.2.0, Apache Sling Commons Threads 3.0.0,
    Apache Sling Event 2.1.0, and Apache Sling Servlets Get 2.0.8
    (December 21, 2009)
  * Apache Sling MIME type mapping support, Version 2.1.2 (December 15, 2009)

Documentation

  Website documentation is steadily improving.

Licensing and other issues

  none


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

- SpamAssassin got a little publicity at the start of the year due to a
  bug in one of our rules that caused the rule to hit on most mail sent
  on or after Jan 1, 2010.  The rule added, depending on scoreset in
  use, up to 3.4 points to the message, effectively reducing a default
  threshold of 5.0 to 1.6.  This would have increased the rate at which
  ham would be falsely marked as spam to approximately 2%.

  As soon as we became aware of the situation on Jan 1, 2010 we
  published an update via our sa-update automatic rule updates and
  started getting the word out (project home page, ASF Blog, all
  SpamAssassin mailing lists and committers@apache.org) that people
  needed to update their rules.  Within 40 hours over 100,000 sites had
  updated their rules.  Another 100,000 were updated in the following
  24 hours.

- SpamAssassin 3.3.0 was released on Jan 27, 2010.  Like previous
  releases, 3.3.0 catches more of today's spam than older releases.
  The release has been well received with no significant issues
  reported by the approximately 10% of sites that have already upgraded
  from 3.2.x versions.

- Sally Khudairi assisted in releasing a press release announcing the
  release of Apache SpamAssassin 3.3.0, the project's first major
  release in two years.

- The SpamAssassin PMC Chair continues to follow the legal-internal
  list; everything there is currently in an OK state in regards to the
  SpamAssassin project.

- The project started publishing fully automated rule updates (after
  the rules pass through a series of automated QA steps).  We expect
  that some teething issues will inevitably pop up, and one has so far,
  so we're keeping a close eye on it.

- Infra has setup a 'spamassassin_role' svn account for our automated
  rule update processes to use.  The account will only be used to
  commit automated changes to our DNS zones and changes to our rule
  updates generated by our statistically driven rule update processes.
  As always, all intellectual property coming into the project will be
  via a commit by a committer and not via this 'spamassassin_role'
  account.

- The SpamAssassin project has talked to Infra about getting the
  spamassassin.org DNS zone's hidden master moved to people.apache.org.
  It is currently running on spamassassin.zones.apache.org, which Infra
  is not in favour of.  The SpamAssassin project agrees that, while
  less convenient for the SpamAssassin project, having the
  spamassassin.org zone's hidden master on people.a.o would be a more
  reliable setup since people.a.o's uptime is higher in priority, for
  Infra, than the Solaris zones.

- We continue to have an issue with one individual causing unrest on
  the SpamAssassin Users' mailing list.  After we removed him from the
  mailing list in December for harassing users and vendors (of DNSBLs)
  he signed back up using a new name.  The new name behaved for quite
  some time so we let it be rather than starting a game of
  whack-a-mole.  Now, recently, he's started posting with another new
  name.  This new name is back to causing unrest.  If the issues
  persist we may have to start a game of whack-an-IP and have Infra
  start blocking his IP.  We'll let the Board know if we take any
  action to remove the user again.

--Daryl C. W. O'Shea, on behalf of the SpamAssassin PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Subversion Project

** Board Issues

The Subversion project has no Board-level issues at this time.

** Community

We have seen a solid migration of our user and development community
from our tigris.org ancestry over to the new ASF infrastructure. The
new user list is very active; the development community had very few
issues and has continued at a fast and healthy rate of development.

One new committer was added: Daniel NÃ¤slund

** Releases

1.6.9 was released at the end of January (as reported in February, as
part of our podling report)

No releases are planned in the near-term. We typically release updates
every 4-6 weeks, so it is reaching the point for a 1.6.10, but we have
no pressing bug fixes or community interest (yet) in doing this. But
historically, it is likely we will craft up a release within the next
two months.

The community is targeting Summer 2010 for our major 1.7 release,
incorporating a complete revamp of the client-side operation, for
speed and stability.

** Other

Our transition from Incubator to TLP status has gone smoothly, simply
because we *started* our ASF infrastructure setup as if we were a TLP.
No changes were needed. We still need to move our issue tracker over
to the ASF infrastructure.

Much time as been spent lately on a website revamp. We've taking the
transition as an opportunity to re-examine users' needs and how our
website can best address that. There have been many examples at
apache.org on how to best (or not!) help users seek the information
they need.

There is a Subversion event being planned in Berlin, in June,
primarily sponsored by Elego. There will be a hackathon, along with a
more structured program at that event. There will also be a gathering
of a number of Subversion developers in New York City around March
25th, which will primarily be an informal discussion (over beers?)
rather than a formal hackathon or program.

The Subversion project will be jostling for a couple GSoC students
this summer. Mentors and summer projects are being identified, along
with engaging the Community Development people.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Synapse Project

Community

The Synapse community keeps going well. Mailing list traffic is solid
and continuous, with new users on a regular basis.

Releases
The 1.3 release is taking longer than expected due to dependencies on
other projects.

Board issues
None identified.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project

The Apache Tiles project continues to tick along with no major changes. We have
not made any releases this quarter or added any new committers. Antonio posted
a blog entry about his vision for Tiles 3. He has been actively pursuing this
vision in the Tiles Sandbox. The blog posting can be found here:

    https://blogs.apache.org/tiles/entry/abstracting_requests_and_templates
    
The Tiles user community continues to be steady with discussion of users' 
questions and issues. There are currently no issues that require board
assistance.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project

Summary
--------------
The project continues to be active on a number of fronts.
There are no issues requiring Board attention at this time.


Releases
-------------
We have released Apache Tomcat 6.0.24 and 6.0.26.
We have released Tomcat Connectors 1.2.30. Version 1.2.29 was
released but later withdrawn because of regression in IIS connector.
And we have also released Tomcat Native versions 1.1.19 and 1.1.20.


Security
------------
We've been working closely with security issue reports and the Apache
Security committee on quickly replying to issues, resolving them, and
coordinating public disclosures.

CVE-2009-2693: Arbitrary file deletion and/or alteration on deploy
 When deploying WAR files, the WAR files were not checked for
 directory traversal attempts. This allows an attacker to create
 arbitrary content outside of the web root by including entries
 such as ../../bin/catalina.sh in the WAR.

CVE-2009-2901: Insecure partial deploy after failed deploy
 By default, Tomcat automatically deploys any directories placed
 in a host's appBase. This behaviour is controlled by the autoDeploy
 attribute of a host which defaults to true. After a failed undeploy,
 the remaining files will be deployed as a result of the
 autodeployment process. Depending on circumstances, files normally
 protected by one or more security constraints may be deployed without
 those security constraints, making them accessible without
 authentication. This issue only affects Windows platforms.

CVE-2009-2902: Unexpected file deletion in work directory
 When deploying WAR files, the WAR file names were not checked for
 directory traversal attempts. For example, deploying and undeploying
 ...war allows an attacker to cause the deletion of the current
 contents of the host's work directory which may cause problems for
 currently running applications.


Development
-------------------
Development was concentrated mainly on fixing bugs for the current
releases and pushing those releases out.

Recent months have seen further significant reductions in the bug
backlog for Tomcat 5 & 6. Unresolved bugs now number ~20 with the oldest
opened around a month ago.

Tomcat 7 development is progressing. The JSP 2.2 and EL 2.2
implementations are complete and pass the TCK. The Servlet 3.0 is nearly
complete with just the asynchronous work and the TCK testing remaining.
The hope is to have a TCK compliant Tomcat 7 release by the end of March.


Community
-----------------
Tim Whittington was elected as new Apache Tomcat committer.
Konstantin Kolinko was voted onto the Apache Tomcat PMC.
Also a few of us will be present at Apache Retreat in Ireland
next month. We have also invited a few users that are very active
and helpful at Apache Tomcat users list, hoping that will
encourage them for eventual development involvement.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Status report for the Apache Wicket Project

Apache Wicket is a Java framework for creating highly dynamic, component
oriented web applications, and was established as an Apache project in
June 2007.

Things worthy of note:
- Released Apache Wicket 1.4.5, 1.4.6 and 1.4.7
- Development for 1.5 is ongoing and finally all unit tests are working
  again due to the relentless efforts of Matej Knopp (breaking it),
  Igor Vaynberg (fixing it) and Juergen Donnerstag (keeping the builds
  running).

Additions/Removals

No changes in the PMC or committer lineup. Our prospected newest
addition is trying to finish thesis right now and will let us know when
he is ready.

No issues require attention from the board.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the March 17, 2010 board meeting.
