Title: Events
page_heading: ASF Events
license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

In addition to our [official conferences](conferences.html) , there are
many other events that are held around the world where the Apache community
of developers and users come together face-to-face to share knowledge,
advice, and wisdom.


![ApacheCon NA 2010](/ads/ApacheCon/2010-na-234x60.gif "ApacheCon NA 2010")
The official conference of the Apache Software Foundation, [ApacheCon NA
2010](http://na.apachecon.com/c/acna2010/) , will be held in Atlanta, GA,
on November 1st-5th 2010, with an updated name that reflects our expanded
presence in North Americai, and a program that showcases our growing Apache
projects.

The [Apache Asia Roadshow 2010](http://roadshowasia.52ac.com/openconf.php)
will be held in Shanghai, China, on August 14th-15th. The topic of this
year's event is open source and emerging technology, directed at software
developers, university students and anyone that loves open source!

The [Apache Retreat Hursley](http://apache.eventbrite.com) will be held in
Hursley, UK, on September 17th-19th 2010. This is an opportunity for
committers to combine an informal technical conference and hackathon, to
present and discuss technical subjects, and to get to know other ASF
committers and members.

The ASF will also have a presence at [Open World
Forum](http://www.openworldforum.org/) , in Paris, September 30th-October
1st 2010.

For further information about any of these events, please contact the
Conference Committee at [concom@apache.org](mailto:concom@apache.org) 

# Other Events

Many third parties also produce events of interest to the Apache community.
These events are **NOT** affiliated with the Apache Software Foundation.
Please contact the event organizers directly with any questions.

- Lucene Revolution: Boston, September 20th-23rd 2010

- Hadoop World: New York, October 12th 2010

# Producing an Apache-related event  {#haveevent}

If you are interested in organizing an event for any of our projects,
please contact the Conference Committee (
[concom@apache.org](mailto:concom@apache.org) ) as early as possible in the
planning process. To use any Foundation or project trademarks in an event,
you must obtain permission from the Conference Committee. To use project
trademarks, you should also have oversight from the relevant Project
Management Committee.

# Inviting an Apache speaker to your event  {#attendevent}

To invite someone to speak about or on behalf of the Foundation, please
contact us at [press@apache.org](mailto:press@apache.org).

You can also find community members willing to speak on a variety of
Apache-related topics using our [People
Finder](http://community.zones.apache.org/) application.
