                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                            June 22, 2005


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 PST -0800 and was begun at
    10:03 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Stefano Mazzocchi
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        Chuck Murcko (Treasurer)

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes in Subversion are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/

    Append the minutes URIs to that to access them through the Web.

    A. The meeting of April 27, 2005

       SVN - board/board_minutes_2005_04_27.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. The meeting of May 18, 2005

       SVN - board/board_minutes_2005_05_18.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       The Board held an IRC conference to talk about many issues that
       are confronting the ASF at this time. No decisions were made in
       private -- the ideas from the meeting have been incorporated
       into this agenda. A large part of the discussion, and a concern
       for the ASF, is better management of legal issues.
       
       During the past month, we have also been welcoming our new
       members into the ASF.

    B. President [Dirk]

	Annual members meeting, sharp increase in press requests,
	BXA/CCN number assignment still not solved. Need to ask
	Ken about procedure Hardship cases. 
	
	Request for exec session.

       i. Infrastructure [Sander]

          See Attachment L

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]

       Lockbox papers have been filed with Wells Fargo. I am awaiting
       a response from them. When Lockbox goes active, the mailing
       address for contributions will change.

       Office expenses have been mailed to Jim.

       We received a check for $6695 from IBM last month which has been
       deposited and shows in our current balances. We have also received
       a check for $2000 from Red Mountain Technologies that has not yet
       deposited.

       Current balances (as of 12/15/2004):

       Paypal           $5471.78
       Checking        $27041.55
       Premium Mkt.   $100594.81

       Total          $133108.14

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Jim reported that that big event in the last month was the
       annual ASF Members Meeting, which was held via IRC on
       May 24th. There was a good turnout and, in general, there
       were less complaints about advance notice or scheduling
       issues than in previous years.
       
       The ASF Voter Tool was used, with the additional result of
       renewed interest in updating and improving the tool, to
       be easier to use and possibly more self-contained. The
       'voter-dev' mailing list was created to coordinate the
       efforts.
       
       We have received almost all the required member applications
       from the new members, and we are, as usual, receiving a steady
       input of iCLAs, with the occasional CCLA. No mailing has
       been received which requires board attention or action.
       
 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Cliff Woolley]

       See Attachment A

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Excalibur Project [J Aaron Farr]

       See Attachment B

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Jakarta Project [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment D

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Lucene Project [Doug Cutting]

       See Attachment E

       No report received or submitted.

    F. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala]

       See Attachment F

       No report received or submitted.

    G. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daniel Quinlan]

       See Attachment G

       Approved by General Consent.

    H. Apache Web Services Project [Davanum Srinivas]

       See Attachment H

       A few issues were noted by various board members. First of all,
       it was reported that Dims was "forced" off the Oasis mailing
       list and delegated to "observer" status. It was also noted that
       the Oasis IPR Policy, as well as other protocols and policies
       which affect WS (especially WS Security Standards) could be
       a potential problem and issue with the WS Project. Ben
       indicated that, not under his ASF hat, he was attending a
       meeting regarding InfoCard, specifically regarding security
       and open standards relating to it.
       
       Because of these questions and issues, the board did NOT
       approve the WS Project report, and will request a revised
       and updated report for the next board meeting.

    I. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cliff Schmidt]

       See Attachment I

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl]

       See Attachment J
       
       Jim volunteered for the Action Item of "hooking" Geir up
       with the Maven project, regarding their interest in JSR 277.
       
       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache Logging Project [Mark Womack]

       See Attachment K

       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Apache Xerces Project [Gareth Reakes]

       See Attachment M

       There was some discussion regarding the community diversity in
       the Xerces projects and whether it was adequate. The general
       consensus was that there was no need for concern at this point.
       
       Approved by General Consent.

    M. Apache iBATIS Project [Ted Husted]

       See Attachment N

       Stefano volunteered to take the Action Item to check on
       the validity and legality of linking to Hibernate, since this
       appears a common concern.
       
       Approved by General Consent.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Appoint new officers of the corporation

       Chairman nominees:

         Greg Stein
         Sam Ruby

       By a vote of 6-Greg, 2-Sam and 1-Abstain, Greg was appointed as
       Chairman.
       
       President nominees:

         Dirk-Willem van Gulik
         Sander Striker

       By a vote of 5-Sander, 2-Dirk and 2-Abstain, Sander was appointed
       as President.
       
       Treasurer nominees:

         Justin Erenkrantz
         Geir Magnusson, Jr

       By Unanimous Vote, Justin was appointed Treasurer.
       
       Executive Vice President nominees:

         Jim Jagielski

       By a vote of 8-Jim and 1-Abstain, Jim was appointed EVP.
       
       Secretary nominees:

         Jim Jagielski

       By a vote of 8-Jim and 1-Abstain, Jim was appointed Secretary.

    B. Appoint a Vice President of Legal Affairs
    
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to appoint an officer responsible
       for legal affairs, including but not limited to streamlining
       communication between the Foundation's Project Management
       Committees, legal counsel, the Board and other parties
       pertaining to legal issues. 

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the office of
       "Vice President of Legal Affairs" be and hereby created,
       the person holding such office to serve at the direction
       of the Board of Directors, and to have primary responsibility
       of coordinating the Foundation's legal counsel pertaining to
       legal issues; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that Cliff Schmidt be and hereby is appointed to
       the office of Vice President of Legal Affairs, to serve in
       accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board
       of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       By Unanimous Vote, Cliff Schmidt was appointed as VP of
       Legal Affairs.
       
    C. Endorsement of MPL for dependencies

       WHEREAS, the Netscape/Mozilla Public Licenses are software licenses
       created to explicitly allow redistribution of products, licensed using
       these licenses, in commercially, non-open source products; and

       WHEREAS, the Netscape/Mozilla Public Licenses requires changes to
       NPL/MPL-ed code to be made available to the public under the same
       license; and

       WHEREAS, the Cocoon and XML Graphics Program Management Committee wish
       to include Rhino, an NPL-licensed product, in their products (Batik and
       Cocoon); and

       WHEREAS, Rhino will be included as-is inside said products, and no
       changes will be made to the Rhino source code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Apache Software Foundation
       endorses the NPL/MPL license as an appropriate license for code
       libraries that are redistributed, unchanged, with ASF products. 

       Special Order C, Endorsement of MPL for dependencies, was tabled.
       
 7. Discussion Items

    A. Hire a sysadmin

       Justin will have two proposals to the board by our July 1st meeting:
          - Hiring a sysadmin on to our staff.
          - Outsourcing all infra@ activities to a third-party company.

       Discussion has started on infra@ for formulating these job descriptions.

       Discussion Item A, Hire a sysadmin, was tabled.

    B. Outsource bookkeeping

       Per Jason, EFF retains Silk, Adler, & Colvin for their 501(c)3 matters.
       Specifically, Rosemary E. Fei: http://www.silklaw.com/bios/fei.cfm

       Discussion Item B, Outsource bookkeeping, was tabled.

    C. BXA guidelines

       [gstein: 10 minute max]

       What is our policy?
       Who should committers contact?
       How does this apply to third-party software?  (such as OpenSSL)

       See Will Rowe's posts to board@.

       Discussion Item C, BXA guidelines, was tabled.

    D. Distribution of third-party software from ASF infrastructure

       [gstein: 10 minute max]

       What is our policy?
       Less restrictive licenses?
       More restrictive licenses?

       Discussion Item D, Distribution of third-party software from ASF
       infrastructure, was tabled.

 8. Review of Current Action Items

      o Dirk to contact Chuck regarding Treasurer role

        This was done, and Justin will further contact Chuck regarding
        the transition.

      o Jim to "come up" with Emeritus status policy

         Discussion on members@ indicates no real consensus on what
         a policy should be; instead, there appears an interest in
         NOT having an automatic policy in place, and simply contacting
         people we are "concerned" about.
         
      o Stefano regarding Rhino Licensing

      o Ken regarding Copyright Line ("licensors")

      o Sam regarding Xalan-J and monthly telecons

        Called (yes, via phone) Brian.  Brian is in western Canada, many
        committers are on the east coast, and there even is one in Austrailia.
        The purpose of the monthy calls is to coordinate the scheduling of
        issues reported to Jira.  At times, this includes some technical
        discussion, but if it goes into design issues, the topic is deferred
        to the mailing list.  Summaries are posted after the call, and JIRA
        is updated.

        No votes are taken on the call.  All committers are welcome.  If the
        topic is a PMC issue, it is deferred to the PMC mailing list.

        Nobody has complained to date, and I asked Brian to specifically
        solicit and watch out for such concerns, as even the existance
        of a perception of a being excluded is something the board would
        take action on.  He said he would.

        Based on this call, and the description of how the call is run,
        I have no further concerns in this matter.

      o Stefano regarding board expectations for new Tomcat Chair.
 
 9. Unfinished Business

    At the Board IRC meeting, it was noted that the board requires a
    better, more efficient way, to track tasks to closure. The updating
    of STATUS and the listing of Action Items was one solution that
    the board has approved. It was agreed that all Action Items should
    be classified as "lazy consensus" unless specifically noted
    otherwise.
    
10. New Business

11. Announcements

12. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PDT -0700. Adjourned at 12:04.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Not much news this quarter in APR.  No new releases, though there
has been a bit of discussion in the last week or so about pushing
out a new point release to get some bug fixes out to our end users.

Paul Querna was added as a new PMC member immediately after last
quarter's reporting cycle.  No new committers this quarter.

We haven't made a final decision yet on the ultimate disposition
of the apr-iconv subproject, which as I mentioned last quarter is
under debate.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project

This is the June 2005 Board report for the Excalibur project.

    * Leo Simons stepped down as PMC Chair. J Aaron Farr was appointed as
      new chair in April.
    * no new committers.
    * no new PMC members.
    * no releases (yet). Shash Chatterjee has been working on getting
      everything in place for the next release.
    * most activity has been minor bug fixing and cleaning up/tagging the
      repository for the next release.

In summary, things are _very_ quiet in Excalibur at the moment. Most of
the committers seem to be rather involved in other activities at the
moment with little effort going into the next release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

    * we've moved off of Brutus and are now spread over three
      machines.  vmgump.apache.org is a VMWare instance on Loki,
      gump.zones.apache.org a Solaris zone on helios and
      gump.osuosl.org a MacOS X server of the Oregon State University
      that we can use. Many Thanks!

    * vmgump will become our primary machine for now, we are slowly
      progressing to the state of stability we had on brutus.

    * the other instances are not yet fully up and running.

Technical:

    * Work continues on Gump3. It is slowly and steadily progressing
      into a codebase that does useful stuff.

Other:

    * Nick Chalko has taken a leave of absence from the PMC, we hope
      to get him back next year.

    * still all Apache committers have access to metadata in CVS.

    * no releases.

    * There are three proposed Summer of Code projects for Gump, all
      focused on Gump3 development. Mentors include Scott Sanders,
      Adam Jack and Leo Simons. Since Gump is one of the few
      python-based projects in the programme, we expect some of these
      will be successfully followed up on.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

= Jakarta Report =

== June 2005 ==

=== Status ===

The major change for Jakarta this quarter is the promotion of Jakarta
Tomcat to Apache Tomcat, the next quarter should see this being
reflected on the website, mailing lists etc.

Last quarter saw a kickstart of the dormant BCEL subproject, which has
seen some minor improvements. Oversight is improved, bugs are being
fixed and some planning of the BCEL future has occurred.

The dormant BSF subproject has recently kickstarted itself, as may be
seen from the new committers listed below.  Discussion is increased,
though PMC oversight will need to be confirmed/improved in the next
quarter.

Subversion migrations continue to move onwards, the ratio for
subprojects is 10 in SVN to 7 in CVS.

There is a proposal to create a new subproject to contain 'webapp
components'; small plugin features for servlet containers (such as
Tomcat). Various proposals for Commons components and the Taglibs
subproject are the impetus.

==== Goals for Q3 2005 ====

  * JCS and HttpClient still need to reflect their move to subproject level.
  * Taglibs, JCS, Cactus SVN migrations.
  * Tomcat to reflect their move to TLP.

=== Releases ===

==== June ====

  * 16 June 2005 - Commons-Jelly 1.0 Released
  * 13 June 2005 - Commons-Lang 2.1 Released
  * 12 June 2005 - Commons-Digester 1.7 Released
  * 03 June 2005 - Commons-Transaction 1.1 Released

==== May ====

  * 25 May 2005 - Commons-VFS graduated from Sandbox to Commons-Proper
  * 19 May 2005 - Commons-Daemon 1.0.1 Released
  * 17 May 2005 - Tapestry 4.0-alpha-3 Released
  * 07 May 2005 - Commons-Net 1.4.0 Released
  * 06 May 2005 - Tapestry 4.0-alpha-2 Released

==== April ====

  * 29 April 2005 - HiveMind 1.1-beta-1 Released
  * 11 April 2005 - Tomcat 5.5.9 stable Released
  * 10 April 2005 - Commons HttpClient 3.0rc2 Released
  * 2 April 2005 - Commons Configuration 1.1 Released

==== March ====

  * 29 March 2005 - Tapestry 3.0.3 Released
  * 27 March 2005 - Tomcat 5.5.9-alpha Released
  * 25 March 2005 - HiveMind 1.1-alpha-3 Released

=== Community changes ===

==== New ASF Members ====

  * 26 May 2005 - Robert Burrell Donkin
  * 26 May 2005 - Vincent Massol
  * 26 May 2005 - Henri Yandell

==== New Committers ====

  * 23 April 2005 - Magnus Grimsell - Cactus
  * 4 May 2005 - Rony G. Flatscher - BSF
  * 27 May 2005 - Nandika Jayawardana - BSF
  * 27 May 2005 - Sanka Samaranayake - BSF
  * 9 June 2005 - Nick Burch - POI
  * 17 June 2005 - Amol Deshmukh - POI

=== Infrastructure news ===

SVN Migrations:

  * ECS complete.
  * BSF complete.
  * Hivemind complete.
  * Slide in process.
  * Velocity repo re-organized into a hierarchical fashion.

=== Subproject news ===

(based on projects that have had a notable event, ie) release, change of
location within Jakarta)

==== Commons-Configuration ====

The 1.1 release of Configuration contains a couple of bug fixes and
introduces some new features like web configurations, optional
configurations, or basic reloading support. In the future we plan to
further enhance these features and to perform some refactoring.

==== Commons-Daemon ====

Daemon had release 1.0.1, after more than a year after 1.0.0. Stop and
wait (until started) features have been added; Known bugs have been
fixed.

==== Commons-Digester ====

Digester had release 1.7, about 9 months after 1.6. The changes are
pretty small; Digester is now a very stable library.

==== Commons-HttpClient ====

3.0 RC2 fixed a number of bugs and we will be having one more RC release
shortly as a few more have popped up.  Jakarta HttpClient is starting to
come together in SVN.  This work has been lead by Oleg Kalinchevski and
it's looking really good.  HttpClient 4.0 should prove to be a really
flexible, reusable, and powerful release.

==== Commons-Jelly ====

The previous release of Jelly had proven to be stable for several
months, and after the memory leak was corrected and underwent sufficient
testing, it was decided to release version 1.0 as a stable base on June
16. This is the first stable release of Jelly.

==== Commons-Lang ====

Lang 2.1 was released. It contains several bug fixes, a package name
change for compatiblity with JDK 1.5, a new mutables package, and
several new utility classes and methods.

==== Commons-Logging ====

No release yet, but work continues on commons-logging. Hopefully a new
release will be out within the next few months to address the long-term
user complaints about classloader issues when using commons-logging in
containers.

==== Commons-Net ====

Commons-Net 1.4.0 was released which contains a brand new date handling
mechanism. It also now contains an FTP parser for MVS, and the variety
of date formats which the FTP client can handle has been extended.

==== Commons-Transaction ====

Transaction had a final 1.1 which includes new features like deadlock
detection, more locking types and fixing of some oddities from 1.0.

==== Commons-VFS ====

This is the first Board Report with VFS out of sandbox. The decision to
cut a release now has been delayed as a bug report uncovered a problem
with filename encoding which needs to be solved.

==== HiveMind ====

HiveMind 1.1 has reached its first beta release; in addition, we've
switched over to Subversion for source code control.  We're in the
process of voting in a new commiter, Achim Hugen.

==== Tapestry ====

The upcoming release has been renumbered from 3.1 to 4.0.  We have
released additional alpha releases of 4.0 and are very close to a first
beta release, which will include portlet support and JDK 1.5 annotation
support. Meanwhile, the 3.0.3 bug fix release closed an annoying
security gap.

==== Tomcat ====

This has been an active quarter for Tomcat.  Work has been focused on
the 5.5 branch, which had several releases targeted at increased
reliability, performance, documentation, and bug fixing.  The 5.5.9
release was voted stable in mid-April, and has been gathering good
reviews from users since then: in fact, no significant issues have been
found with it.

In May, the Apache Software Foundation's Board of Directors also
approved the Tomcat team' request to be moved out of Jakarta into its
own top-level project.  Accordingly, this is the last Jakarta board
report which will include Tomcat: watch for the Tomcat PMC to address
its own reports to the board as required by foundation bylaws.  The
Tomcat team would like to thank the Jakarta community for its
outstanding support over the years: we plan to continue working together
tightly on issues and projects of mutual interest.

==== Velocity ====

Migration from Bugzilla to Jira approved.  OSGi packaging contributed
for Velocity core.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Portals Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

  * SpamAssassin 3.0.3 and 3.0.4 were released.  3.0.4 was released on
    June 6th to address a denial of service vulnerability.  The
    vulnerability was announced on June 15th in coordination with
    vendors (with security@apache.org in the loop).

  * SpamAssassin 3.1.0-pre1 was released on June 17th.

  * Since 5 SpamAssassin developers will be in the Palo Alto, CA area
    during the CEAS conference we're planning a one-day SpamAssassin
    hackathon the Saturday after the conference ends.

  * SpamAssassin 3.1.0 is roughly scheduled to be completed and
    released between July 13th and July 20th.

  * Number of committers, PMC members, etc. stable.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

- Apache Axis 1.2.1 (a bug-fix/incremental release) was released on 
  15th June, 2005.
- Apache Sandesha beta version was released on 12th June, 2005. 
  The intention of the team is to relase 1.0 version soon. 
- Apache EWS 1.0 was released on 30th May, 2005. 
  Not downloadable for now (only svn tag)
- Apache Axis CPP released 1.5 in Early April. Greatly improved 
  stability has led to less mailing list issues.
- Apache Axis2 M2 was released on 7th of June 2005, with many of the 
  changes proposed in the Colombo face to face.
- Apache jUDDI 0.9rc4 was released on 14th of June, 2005. jUDDI 
  completely supports the UDDI version 2.0 specifcation. A 0.9 final 
  release is planned for the 15th of July, 2005 which will include fixes 
  for any issues that surface over the next couple of weeks as well as 
  an updated users guide. 
- There has been a good discussion going on recently about how to best 
  factor things like WSDL processing code across the WS projects. This 
  kind of design for sharing/reuse should be encouraged.
- Based on Roy's feedback, we there is lot of discussion on general@ws
  mailing list on how to increase cooperation between WS projects 
  (including discussion on a single ACL)
- The Woden incubator commenced in April to develop a common WSDL 
  processor for WSDL 2.0 and 1.1. Prototype code is in SVN, the web 
  site is up and mailing list discussion has started on requirements, 
  scope and priorities (for Axis, Eclipse and W3C).
- Apollo was officially renamed to: Apache WSRF
- Hermes was officially renamed to: Apache Pubscribe
- WSRF, Pubscribe and Muse have been promoted out of incubation!
- Muse participated in a successful public interop event with IBM at 
  the ICAC/IEEE Conference in Seattle.
- WSRF, Pubscribe and Muse all took new committers.
- WSRF, Pubscribe and Muse will be the subject of a "Birds of a Feather" 
  session at JavaOne (June 29th) called: "Web Services on Steroids: 
  Taking Web Services to the Next Level Using Apache's Implementations 
  of WSRF, WSN, and WSDM"

   
-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

- PMC approved new xmlbeanscxx subproject proposal from RogueWave.
  This proposal also caused another potential contributor (Tomasz 
  Wielga) for a C/C++ version of xmlbeans to come forward!  Currently
  waiting on CLAs from initial committers.
- Candidate for the final xmlbeans v2 release is now posted for final
  community review.  Vote to happen later this week. 

todo list:
- Contact PRC about the v2 release
- Help get xmlbeanscxx started in the Incubator
- Help get XML Federation discussion going again (still on todo list) 
- Draft xmlbeans charter (still on todo list)

   
-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

New projects

 Continuum finally landed in Maven's SVN. It was originally slated as
 one of projects which would arrive with Maven itself when TLP was
 found but we only got around to getting it into SVN two months ago.

 RepoClean is our application for cleaning up and converting Maven
 project metadata (POMs) in preparation for the final release of Maven
 2.0. Much of the metadata in m1 is faulty because of our lax
 policies. We are working hard to rectify this.

 Maven Artifact Tasks for Ant have been released and is the start of
 some collaboration between the Maven and Ant projects. Steve has
 started integrating the artifact tasks into Ant and they will be used
 in the 1.7 release of Ant.

New PMC members

 Arnaud Hertier has been added as PMC member.

 Michal Mazcka has stepped down from the PMC.

New Committers

 Vincent Siveton has been granted commit privs on m1 and m2 plugins.

Releases

 * Maven 2.0-alpha-1

 * Maven 2.0-alpha-2

 * Maven 1.1-beta-1

 * Continuum 1.0-alpha-1

 * Continuum 1.0-alpha-2

 * Scads of Maven 1.x plugins

Goings on

 Things have been moving rapidy as we are very much trying to release
 the versions of Maven 2.0 and Continuum 1.0 sometime in August. So
 almost all our effort is focused on that. We're starting to get a lot
 of user interest in Maven 2.0 and a lot of it is positive. In fact
 most of it is positive.

 We just noticed JSR 277 and it is a JSR that we would like to be the
 Apache representative for. With our experience in versioning,
 packaging, repositories and metadata we think we think someone from
 the Maven project would be ideal.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

Logging Services report 2005-05
-------------------------------

Projects listed in alphabetical order.

PMC Report
----------

* Ceki G端lc端 decided to step down as Chair of the Logging Services PMC and
Mark Womack was nominated and recommended to the ASF Board as the
replacement.  The ASF Board appointed Mark through resolution at the May
board meeting.  The PMC thanks Ceki for all of his efforts to get the Logging
Services project off the ground as the PMC Chair!

* Issues with the log4cxx project were raised by Ceki G端lc端 to the ASF
board and LS PMC as part of his chair handoff.  At issue was the
perceived problem that log4cxx currently has three committers, only two of
which are currently active (the third of which is currently on a leave of
absence).  This issue was orignally raised when the log4cxx project was
graduated from incubation, but it was felt that the situation was healthy
enough and new committers would be added to the log4cxx project in the near
future.  However, no new committers have been added to date.  The Logging
Services PMC is still monitoring the situation.  There are several
contributors to the log4cxx project that are showing some real potential to
becoming full committers, given some more time.  The PMC will continue to
update the board and incubator as to the progress.

* Discussions around interoperability between the various Logging Services
subprojects implementations have been started.  Many people within the
Logging Services project see  this as an important aspect of providing unified
logging support across different development languages.  What exactly it means
and how the subprojects can conform to it needs to be determined, but the LS
project is in a unique position to forge a solution in this area.


log4cxx Report
--------------

* A release is still long overdue, however most major issues have been
resolved and remaining tasks primarily involve restoring functionality
that had been disabled during recent pervasive changes.  Jira issue
LOGCXX-62 is tracking the progress toward an 0.9.8 release.

* Two developers were submitted to the PMC for committer access at the PMC
Chairman's request.  The PMC consensus was that the candidates needed a
longer history before committer access was granted.


log4j Report
------------

* In April, the log4j committers voted to recall version 1.2.10 of log4j.
The primary concern being that it was not released under the bylaws of the
Logging Services project in regards to releases by subprojects.

* The log4j committers have agreed upon a release overview and timeline
for future releases. Versions 1.2.11 and 1.2.12 are going to have important
bug fixes and (hopefully) the long awaited addition of the TRACE level.
Work on 1.3 will progress with the finalization, consolidation, and testing of
features.  Timeframe for the 1.3 release is targeted for October of this
year.

* The current log4j cvs has a dependency on code from a related outside
project, slf4j (Simple Logging Facade For Java).  The basis of this code is
originally from the log4j project (the UGLI api set), but was moved outside to
have it under a different, compatible license (X11/MIT type license).  There is
planned support for slf4j for the v1.3 release and discussions about official
support in the v1.2 branch.  The slf4j project is currently providing a fork of
the log4j 1.2 version, called nlog4j, that provides an slf4j implementation.


log4net Report
--------------

* Log4net is currently incubating. The incubator approved the release of
log4net 1.2.9 beta which is the first release of log4net under Apache.
The upcoming release goals are to ensure consistent code quality and
improve the available end user documentation.

* The project's ongoing goal is to increase the number of active
committers and to graduate from incubation.


log4php Report
--------------

[No report submitted by committers, LS PMC following up as to project status] 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Board Report for Apache Infrastructure Team

April-June

The infrastructure team has been so busy it hurts. We have migrated a few
more projects to top level, migrated a few from cvs to svn, added some new
infrastructure projects, users, "the usual". We are seeing roughly 600
emails a month on the infrastructure mailing list, excluding svn commit
messages.

Besides the usual, some things of note include that

Nontechnical
------------
* we have slowly gotten to work on the board's request to formulate RFPs
  on paid staff/outsourcing.

* OSU OSL has generously offered to provide us some hardware along with
  hosting at their colo.

* we have set up a new mailing list, site-dev@apache.org, which is tasked
  with figuring out a flexible and powerful new website publishing
  process.

* we have sollicited volunteers which has yielded roughly half a dozen
  responses from previously silent people as well as somewhat inactive
  infrastructure participants offering to become more active.

* we have found we are not currently in optimal shape for productively
  growing our team and getting people things to do. Work is in progress
  to improve that.

* quite a bit of work has been done and is still in progress on internal and
  project-oriented documentation.

* we have some promising submissions to the google summer of code programme
  for helping with the asf-workflow tool.

* we are planning another infra-thon (infrastructure team gettogether) in
  the weekend leading up to apachecon which should be considerably more
  modest and hence cheaper than the last one.

Technical
---------
* our mailserver has had a lot of trouble handling the load (mostly
  spam) lately. Solutions being explored include optimizing the
  machine's configuration, patching the mail software to be more efficient,
  taking into operation a new machine at OSU OSL, and generally anything
  else we can think of. It has taken a lot of time just to keep things
  running, and we have seen some service interruptions. We may need more
  hardware if the amount of spam that goes around the web continues to grow.

* brutus has been partially reinstalled to serve as another FreeBSD host,
  which hopefully will be finished this week. We will use it to take over
  some of minotaur (our main box) its duties as we upgrade that.

* AMD has donated a machine for running apachecon.com which we will be
  hosting in our rack in the San Francisco colo. The machine is scheduled
  for install this week.

* loki (running vmware) has been partially configured for gump runs.

* we have another machine on loan at OSU OSL for gump runs which is not
  in operation yet.

* quite a few (dozen??) of zones have been set up on the new sun box,
  helios. Various PMCs have been busy setting a variety of services up.
  Helios is still in a testing phase.

* we are hoping to take the raid array that came with helios operational
  this week.

* we experienced a lot of performance problems with the wiki which were
  solved by putting in place a development install of apache httpd with
  mod_cache.

* JIRA has been upgraded to the most recent release. It is still being
  tuned to be as stable as it was before. Users are seeing a notable
  performance increase and fancy new features such as automated links to
  subversion changes.

* Our SVN service had a few hickups, but incident rate seems decreasing
  whereas usage is still increasing. The majority of our projects are
  now using SVN, with more projects in the migration queue.

* the certificate service (ca.apache.org) has seen a lot of development
  work recently.

* we have moved DNS registrars. We are now with dotster??

* Serge's Nagios installed has been moved to monitoring.apache.org and
  reconfigured to provide even more useful information.

* We have purchased and installed another PDU at our main colo in SF


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Board Report for Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

The appropriate parts of JAXP 1.3 have now been integrated and a vote
is underway to release 2.7 on Friday.

Xerces-C

A large amount of progress has been made on the new build system - it
is now in the main trunk. Not all platforms are currently supported,
but it is much easier to add them with the standard
configure/make/make install paradigm. There is more mail traffic and
contributers than we have seen for some time.

Xerces-P

The discussions about if and how to make xerces-p a subproject of
xerces-c have been put off until after the build system has been
completed. Xerces-P committers are currently helping out on the
xerces-c build system.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Board Report for Apache iBATIS Project

The transition from incubator to top-level project goes smoothly. The
repository and mailing lists have been rolled over, and the website
updated. The last step is to integrate the ASF mirroring with our
release process. Our iBATIS.NET product is nearing a GA release, and
so we will need to do that soon. We installed a new committer this
month, Ron Grabowski.

I have been keeping the PMC updated as to general developments in the
LGPL/GPL discussions. Before moving to Apache, iBATIS bundled a
Hibernate extension along with the JARs. During incubation, we removed
the JARs and substituted stub API files so that our object files
compile without the Hibernate library.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the June 22, 2005 board meeting.
