Title: (SupersededTrademark Use Policy
license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

# This policy has been superseded  {#draft}

**NOTICE:** This document has been superseded by our [new formal trademark
use policy](/foundation/marks) in September of 2009.
Please see the new policy at
[https://www.apache.org/foundation/marks](/foundation/marks).

# Trademark Use Policy (OUTDATED)  {#policy}

<div class=".pull-right" style="float:right; border-style:dotted; width:200px; padding:5px; margin:5px">

SEE INSTEAD: [Trademark Resources Site Map][resources].

</div>

As with any legal trademarks, the name "Apache" and the names of our code
projects, Incubator podlings, and other projects must be used properly and
in accordance with US law and the laws of your location. As a public
charity and as a community leader, the ASF has additional guidelines for
the use of our trademarks.

# Quick Links (OUTDATED)  {#links}

-  [General Trademark And Logo Guidelines](index.html) 

-  [Using ASF Logos (graphics)](logos.html) 

-  [Trademarks and Logos on merchandise/giveaways](merchandise.html) 

-  [Special guidelines about Incubator
Podlings](https://incubator.apache.org/guides/branding.html) 

# Proper Usage of "Apache" Trademark (OUTDATED)  {#apachetrademark}

1. You may not incorporate the Apache trademark (the name "Apache") into
the name of your company or software product name.

1. It is acceptable to include the Apache trademark in the name of a
publication, certification program, domain-name or book.However, you must
ensure that a) the appropriate TM symbol and attribution (as discussed
below) is associated with the Apache reference, b) Apache is not
concatenated with another word, e.g.- ApacheBoard, and c) the usage does
not imply or make the user believe that your work is supported or endorsed
by the Apache Software Foundation.

1. Apache should always be capitalized.

# Proper Usage of Apache Product Names (OUTDATED)  {#projecttrademark}

The names of all Apache products are trademarks of The Apache Software
Foundation. A [separate
policy](https://incubator.apache.org/guides/branding.html) covers all
Incubator Podlings.

1. The full name of an Apache product is always "Apache
&lt;product-name&gt;", like "Apache Tomcat" or "Apache HTTP server". When
referring to an Apache product, use the full name for at least the first
reference. Subsequent references may use just the short name, for example
"Tomcat".

1. You may not incorporate an Apache product name into the name of your
company or software product name other than fair-use. If you have a
software product that works with an Apache software product, it is
suggested that you use terms such as "&lt;product name&gt; for Apache
Tomcat" or "&lt;product name&gt; powered by Apache Tomcat". You may not
call your product "Apache &lt;something&gt;" or "&lt;something&gt; Tomcat".

1. It is acceptable to include an Apache product name in the name of a
publication, certification program, domain-name or book.However, you must
ensure that a) the appropriate TM symbol and attribution (as discussed
below) is associated with the Apache product reference, b) the Apache
product name is not concatenated with another word, e.g.- TomcatForum, and
c) the usage does not imply or make the user believe that your work is
supported or endorsed by the Apache Software Foundation.

# Proper Notice and Attribution (OUTDATED)  {#attribution}

The appropriate trademark symbol (TM or similar) should appear with at
least the first use of any Apache trademarks within a document or graphic,
and with all occurences of Apache logos.

When you use an Apache trademark or logo, you should include a statement
attributing the trademark to The Apache Software Foundation. For example,
"Apache Tomcat and Apache Struts are trademarks of The Apache Software
Foundation."
