content/apache-name/index.md, before:

Title: About Our Name

license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

# {{title}}

The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) was incorporated in 1999 by original members of the Apache Group, 21 individuals from around the world who oversaw the development of the Apache HTTP Server, which was created in 1995.

Co-founder Brian Behlendorf first used the name “Apache” for the server. The use of the name “Apache” shows appreciation for the people and tribes who refer to themselves as “Apache”.  As of 2023, to our knowledge these are the [Chiricahua Apache](https://camnnation.org/), the [Choctaw Apache](https://choctawapachetribeebarb.org/), the [Fort Sill Apache](https://fortsillapache-nsn.gov/), the Jicarilla Apache, the [Mescalero Apache](https://mescaleroapachetribe.com/), the [Lipan Apache](http://www.lipanapache.org/), the Plains Apache, the San Carlos Apache, the Tonto Apache, the [White Mountain Apache](http://www.wmat.nsn.us/) and the [Yavapai Apache](https://yavapai-apache.org/).

As the Apache HTTP Server grew from patches applied to the NCSA Server, a pun on the name quickly spread amongst members of the community, with the rumor being that “Apache” actually stood for “a ‘patchy’ server”. As time passed, the popularity of the “A Patchy Server” story grew: rumor became lore, and lore became legend.

In “Trillions and Trillions Served”, the 2020 documentary on the ASF, [Brian explains the ethos behind his choosing the name “Apache”](https://youtu.be/JUt2nb0mgwg?t=249).

On occasion, we have been asked about claims about use of the “Apache” name by the Apache Native American communities. During its twenty-five years of use of “Apache” as part of its name, the ASF has never been involved in any legal dispute with Native American communities or any other party in relation to the use of the “Apache” name.

For information on using the Apache name in promotions, media, and communications, visit [ASF Marketing and Publicity Resources](/press). For guidelines on using The Apache Software Foundation's brands on websites, in books, in presentations and events, in research papers, or in other ways, see the ASF’s Trademarks and Brand Management [Brand Policy](/foundation/marks).

Commit message:

add Fort McDowell Yavapai Nation and Oklahoma Apache Tribe

content/apache-name/index.md, after:

Title: About Our Name

license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

# {{title}}

The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) was incorporated in 1999 by original members of the Apache Group, 21 individuals from around the world who oversaw the development of the Apache HTTP Server, which was created in 1995.

Co-founder Brian Behlendorf first used the name “Apache” for the server. The use of the name “Apache” shows appreciation for the people and tribes who refer to themselves as “Apache”.  As of 2023, to our knowledge these are the [Chiricahua Apache](https://camnnation.org/), the [Choctaw Apache](https://choctawapachetribeebarb.org/), the [Fort Sill Apache](https://fortsillapache-nsn.gov/), the Jicarilla Apache, the [Mescalero Apache](https://mescaleroapachetribe.com/), the [Lipan Apache](http://www.lipanapache.org/), the Apache Tribe of Oklahoma, the Plains Apache, the San Carlos Apache, the Tonto Apache, the [White Mountain Apache](http://www.wmat.nsn.us/) and the [Yavapai Apache](https://yavapai-apache.org/); additionally [Fort McDowell Yavapai Nation](https://www.fmyn.org/) is a member of the Apache Alliance.

As the Apache HTTP Server grew from patches applied to the NCSA Server, a pun on the name quickly spread amongst members of the community, with the rumor being that “Apache” actually stood for “a ‘patchy’ server”. As time passed, the popularity of the “A Patchy Server” story grew: rumor became lore, and lore became legend.

In “Trillions and Trillions Served”, the 2020 documentary on the ASF, [Brian explains the ethos behind his choosing the name “Apache”](https://youtu.be/JUt2nb0mgwg?t=249).

On occasion, we have been asked about claims about use of the “Apache” name by the Apache Native American communities. During its twenty-five years of use of “Apache” as part of its name, the ASF has never been involved in any legal dispute with Native American communities or any other party in relation to the use of the “Apache” name.

For information on using the Apache name in promotions, media, and communications, visit [ASF Marketing and Publicity Resources](/press). For guidelines on using The Apache Software Foundation's brands on websites, in books, in presentations and events, in research papers, or in other ways, see the ASF’s Trademarks and Brand Management [Brand Policy](/foundation/marks).
