Title: Press Conference for the Tenth Anniversary of The Apache Software Foundation
license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

( [PDF Version](pr_2009_03_04.pdf) )

* **Globally Recognized Open Source Organization Celebrates a Decade of
Leadership** * 

**What:** The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) will hold a press conference
to commemorate a decade of innovation in Open Source software and community
development at ApacheCon Europe 2009, its official user conference. ASF
representatives will also be available to answer the media’s questions
and explain the various aspects of ApacheCon; a photo opportunity (pool for
broadcast media) will be arranged after the press conference.

**When:** Wednesday, 25 March 2009 at 5.00PM/1700CET [GMT +1] in
conjunction with ApacheCon Europe. Welcome Reception immediately to follow.
Registered media are encouraged to attend the full conference: 23-27 March
2009.

**Where:** Conference Centre of Mövenpick Hotel Amsterdam City Centre
(Piet Heinkade 11, 1019 BR Amsterdam, The Netherlands)

**Who:** Incorporated in 1999, the all-volunteer, non-profit Foundation
oversees more than sixty-five award-winning and diverse Open Source
projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world’s most popular Web
server software since its creation in 1994. Evolving from the original
eight developers known as “the Apache Group“, The ASF today comprises
nearly 300 individual Members and over 2,000 Committers collaborating
across six continents through The ASF’s successful meritocratic process
known as “The Apache Way“. The Foundation supports the incubation and
development of enterprise-grade, freely available software while minimizing
potential legal exposure of intellectual property and financial
contributions. Apache products benefit millions of Internet users
worldwide, with thousands of software solutions available under the popular
Apache License distributed in both Open Source and proprietary products.
The ASF footprint continues to grow, helping the global Open Source
community through mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the
Foundation’s official conference, trainings, and expo. Day-to-day
operating expenses are offset by individual donations and corporate
sponsors that include Google, HP, Microsoft, Progress Software,
SpringSource, and Yahoo! For more information, visit
[https://www.apache.org/](/) 

**Press Registration:** Press badges are required to gain entry into the
conference, expo hall, and all related events. Badges will be issued at no
charge to accredited editors, reporters, and camera/sound personnel; press
credentials may be obtained in advance by contacting [Sally
Khudairi](mailto:sk@haloworldwide.com) of HALO Worldwide and designating
their membership in a press organization. If registering onsite,
accreditation requirements include presenting a business card representing
a bona fide media organization or suitable identification for contributors
to online outlets (such as blogs); please ensure to specify the names and
functional titles of all applicants. Applications that include a letter of
assignment on official letterhead signed by the publisher/assignment editor
or bureau chief will expedite processing. Badges will be available for
pickup on-site at the ApacheCon Registration desk.

**Registration:** Those who are not members of the media who wish to attend
ApacheCon Europe may visit
[https://www.eu.apachecon.com/](https://www.eu.apachecon.com/) for delegate
registration information.

